Take 1 lb. each of rose water, water of fennel, water of strawberries, water of bramble, water of eyebright, water of celandine, and dry malvasia wine. At times from all these waters I do not make only one flask. I put in it enough zinc oxide, 1 ½ ounces, for preservation, and aloe, ½ ounce, and fine sugar, 2 ounces, and make all these things into very fine powder. I put everything in a flask and shake it well, turning it upside down so that everything is well incorporated. Then cover it and put it in the sun for 20 days or more and every day turn it once upside down so that everything is well mixed, and in this way it is confected by the sun. By this method the most perfect water will be made for every illness of the eyes, especially for dryness. When the cloudy eyes are bathed, see that a little of it enters in the corner of the eye. Protect yourself from the early morning air and the evening air to preserve health and, with the aid of God, soon you will be cured by this treatment that has been tested many times by me, Master Apothecary Andrea from Farre in Brescia.

Excellent wine of eyebright for the eyes. Take the herb eyebright in an amount at your discretion and put in some grape must before it is boiled for bottling, and when it is clarified, use it to drink and you will always have very good vision and good eyes. If it should be too strong, temper it with mild things. By continuing to use it you will have good vision always.

Water for cloudy eyes. Take tips of bramble, plantain, burdock, rue, spirea, fennel and celandine, one handful each, and half a handful of red poppy. Put all these herbs in a glass still and sprinkle on them these powders: zinc carbonate, cloves and hepatic aloe, ½ ounce each, and with ½ glass of malvasia or good white wine begin squirting these herbs with this and then with rose water, alternately. Put on the cover and with temperate fire, little by little, barely be able to distill. Preserve it in a glass bottle and leave it for several days in the sun and it will be made. Then 2 or 3 days of the week, especially in the evening when you go to sleep, bathe the eyes so that it enters the corner of the eyes well.

Another. Take quicklime and put it in well water for one day and one night without touching it. Then lift it out with a card on which you will have put it carefully with a feather. Then put this water, very well filtered, in a bottle and put therein a little sal ammoniac and make it dissolve in the water. Then when your eyes are bathed with it, it will make your vision wonderfully clear.

Another for a warm humor that may involve the eyes. Take fresh cheese, cut finely, and wash it very well as if making a paste. Then with rose water and the white of one fresh egg, mix everything together very well, and when you go to sleep make a little plaster on a cloth and put it on the bad eye and, especially if the eye shows any spotting of blood through dryness, it will make that disappear and go away without any distress.

Another for pain in the eyes. Take 3 apples and extract the juice and take the white of a fresh egg and incorporate them together. Then rub it around the eyes and soon the pain of the eyes will stop.

Another for pain in the eyes. Take one carafe of malvasia or vernaza or other excellent white wine and 6 drams of rose water, 1 ounce each of hepatic aloe and fine sugar, 2 quatrini each of camphor and zinc oxide and make everything into very fine powder. Put the carafe, covered, in the sun for 8 or 10 days and 2 or 3 times a day shake it well upside down. Put it in the eyes. Doing this several times will help you.

Another for the above condition of the eyes. Take 2 or 3 lizards and cut them up. Throw away the head, feet and tail. Dry the rest and make very fine powder and this, put in the eye, purifies it.

Another for bad eyes. Take 4 to 6 fresh eggs and cook them very hard and take the white and put it in a handkerchief, first wetting it with rose water. Then press it well and the water that comes forth, put therein zinc oxide and fine sugar and wash the eyes and it will make your sight good.

Water for bad eyes.

Take one handful of rue and put it in a glass vessel and put thereon good white wine. Then put in a large amount of silver and put it in a bowl, uncovered, for 3 days and 3 nights. Remove it and strain it carefully and wash the eyes thoroughly with the decoction and it will make you very pleased. Take rue boiled with white wine and put in a little sugar and zinc carbonate and put it in the eye.

Another for bad eyes. Take 3 lb. of honey and 6 ounces of fine sugar and one handful of the herb celandine and some white bread crumbs soaked in juice of rue or in distilled water of rue and water of celandine. Mix everything and distill it in glass and bathe the eyes with this water.

Another for the eye that may be bloody. Take 6 ounces of rose water, 1 dram of zinc oxide and ½ dram of camphor and 6 ounces of good white wine and mix these things carefully and put them in a flask and shake it well upside down and put it in the sun for 8 to 10 days or boil it on a bain marie, and with this water bathe the eyes repeatedly and, by continuing it, the signs of blood will go away.

A very good remedy for the eye that has been wounded. Take juice from red clover with the dark mark and put some of the juice in the wounded eye and do not touch it for 24 hours and this will help you.

The best remedy for every painful eye. Take absinthe, pennyroyal, laurel and cumin and grind everything together and make very fine powder. Then compound it with purified honey and boil it slowly so that it is thickened a little. Then put it in the eyes and soon it will remove the pain.

Water of celandine or swallow wort for bad eyes. Take the herb celandine, that is swallow wort, which has the same power to heal cloudy vision. Take it in flower and cook it in pure water in which is well-cleaned honey. Afterwards, strain it through linen cloth and distill this decoction in a glass still. Put this distillation in the eyes repeatedly and it will relieve you quickly.

Another water for the eyes. Take rose water and burdock, rue, rosemary, flowers of broad beans, celandine, agrimony, fennel and sage in equal amounts and distill all the herbs and collect the water. Leave it in the sun for 10 to 15 days. Then bathe the eyes in the morning and the evening and, if you have a serious sickness, drink half a glass in the evening when you go to sleep. Take care that you do not eat unhealthful things and be careful to drink only a little wine and this will help you considerably.

Another to clarify the vision. Take juice of cottonweed and let it soak one night. Filter it and leave it for one night in a bottle and put therein a little zinc oxide and fine sugar. Then rub the eyes with it for 15 to 20 days, 2 or 3 times a day, and you will be cured.

Another water for bad eyes. Take one soldo ofzinc oxide in rose water, and one glass of rose water and one quatrino of fine sugar and one glass of racese wine or other strong white wine and incorporate everything together and put it in a covered bottle in the sun for 8 to 10 days and turn it upside down often so that it mixes well. Bathe the eyes repeatedly and see that some enters around the eye and if you feel it a little do not doubt that this is the best sign that you can have of a quick cure against the illness and the need may disappear and you will be cured.

