Another water for bad eyes. Take 8 ounces of good malvasia wine, 4 ounces of rose water, 1 dram of verdigris and cloves and tie them up in a piece of cloth and put them to soak in the malvasia. Then boil everything for one miserere and remove the cloth and squeeze it very well into the infusion. The stronger you want the water, the more you should squeeze the button of cloth. Let it clear and put this water in the eyes and soon you will be cured. This has much value for blurred eyesight and is very well tested.

Another water for the eyes. Take a clean pot and put therein 6 pounds of cistern water and put it on the fire and when it begins to boil put in verdigris, white sugar and ordinary salt, everything in fine powder, and let it boil for one-half hour. Remove it and when it is cool, filter it and let it clear well. Then put it in a bottle and wash the eyes with it and you will see wonderfully. This is a praiseworthy thing.

For the pain that comes on the eyelashes.

Take half a handful each of the herb burdock, sage and nightshade and grind everything and extract the juice and put therein a fresh egg white, well beaten, and mix it. Then wet a stupe in it and put it on the forehead with a bandage and the pain will soon pass away. This is a very worthwhile secret.

Electuary for tearing and everted eyes and for debilitated stomach and to preserve memory. Take the seed of samphire, that is sea fennel, of parsley, of fennel and of bastard lovage, 1 ounce each, and make a fine powder. Then take flowers of rosemary, of borage and of bugloss, 2 ounces each, and cut them very finely. Then take 20 pounds of cleaned honey and put it in a pot and put everything in and boil it slowly on a charcoal fire. Lightly skim it and let it reduce one third. Then remove it and put it in a bottle and put in 2 carats of musk and be sure that this is well macerated and incorporated into the warm electuary. Cover it with good parchment and leave it in the sun for a month and it will be made. If you have any of these infirmities, that is debility of vision with runny and dripping eyes or a debilitated stomach or if one has a poor memory, this augments and preserves even this. The electuary is taken for 30 days continuously, one spoonful every morning, more or less, according to how the patient responds to the electuary, and you will see wonderful results. Many prelates of the holy church use this electuary to their benefit.

