A wonderful unguent for irritated eyes. Take lizard dung and snails with shells, white incense and myrrh, 2 ounces each, lard scraped from male pig, 1 ounce, and white wax, 1 ounce, and camphor, ½ ounce, and make an unguent with all these things on a slow fire and it will be made. In the evening put it on the irritated eye and put on a piece of sandalwood and do it several times and, through God's grace, you will be cured.

Another for everted eyelids. Take one or more gall bladders from rabbits and a packet of zinc oxide and incorporate these things well and leave them in the sun for 3 or 4 days. In the evening when you go to sleep, bathe the eyes several times and they will recover from their symptom with ease. Refrain from wine.

Another for dryness of the eyes. Take the herb marjoram and make it into fine powder and, in the evening when you go to sleep, drink half a spoonful with wine. Then place a little ginger root under the tongue and, sleeping thus, in a short time you will recover from dryness of the eyes.

To remove from the eyes any spot or cataract.

Take 1 ounce of zinc oxide in solid and in powder form and put it in a bottle and mix it with a little fresh verjuice that is neither too hard nor too sweet but is very liquid. Cover it and put it in the sun for 15 days and each day add a spoonful of the verjuice and at the end of 15 days add a spoonful of rose water. Let it stay again in the sun for 15 days. Then at this time take 3 ounces of old lard of male pig that is clean and grind it finely. Then take strong white vinegar, 1 lb., and put therein the lard to boil in a clean pot until it reduces in half and let it cool and remove the fat congealed on the top. Wash this very well with rose water until nothing remains of the vinegar. Take the zinc oxide and incorporate it very well with this grease until the mixture becomes like an unguent and it will be delicate and it will be made. Save it as something dear in a delicate vessel. When you wish to use it, put a little on the streak or spot that is in the eye in the morning and the evening. Following this you will see the effect take place from day to day and soon you will see improvement because this has been tested many times. Watch what you eat and you will be cured.

Another for spots that are in the eye. Take some spearmint that has in the center of the leaf a spot of brown color. Grind it and extract the juice, then strain it and put therein the white of a fresh egg, well beaten, and incorporate well with the juice. In the evening when you go to sleep, wet a piece of linen in the juice and put it on the eye and it will help you a great deal, through God's grace.

Another powder that removes cloudiness that is in the eye. Take fennel and rue, each the same amount. Grind them and extract the juice. Then put it in a covered bottle in the sun until it is dry. Remove it and pulverize it and put this powder in the cloudy eye several times and, through God's grace, you will soon be cured.

Another powder for cloudiness that is in the eye. Take one gall bladder of a rabbit and throw away the skin that is around it. Then take juice of fennel and white sugar and incorporate them together and put it in a bottle in the sun for 4 or 5 days. With a feather from a chicken, lightly put this in 2 times a day and, little by little, the cloudiness will be removed.

