Another for the eye that is cloudy and does not see. Take zinc oxide, 2 drams, yellow litharge and camphor, each 1 scruple, and hepatic aloe, 1 scruple, and fine white sugar, 1 dram, and incorporate with everything finely pulverized. Put in enough good white wine to barely cover it and leave it in the sun for 8 days. Then add these herbs, all pulverized finely, viz: eyebright and agrimony; then add these waters, viz: rose water, water of fennel, of rue, of tips of gooseberry, of agrimony, of eyebright, of celandine and of burdock, each 3 drams, and incorporate all these waters with the powder. Leave it in a bottle, well corked, in the sun for 15 to 20 days. Then strain it carefully and bathe the eyes inside and out, 2 or 3 times a day. By continuing to bathe them, you will be cured. This is remedy number 5.

To sharpen the sight of those who may have problems. Take the herb celandine in the spring and dry it in the shade. Then make very fine powder. Eat this powder many times in food and also rub it in the eyes and little by little you will begin to improve the sight and to sharpen it wonderfully. Know that this blessed herb has such virtue that the swallows pick it and rub it in the eyes of their nestlings and soon they can see. If you will do the test you will see the effect is true.

Another similar powder to restore the vision. Take leaves of betony, rue, celandine, eyebright, lovage, pennyroyal, seeds of fennel and of parsley, anise, ginger, grains of paradise, cardamon, bastard lovage, hyssop, oregano and seeds of celery, each 1 ounce, and make fine powder of all the aforesaid things and incorporate them, and use some of this powder in your foods like a spice before and during meals and put it in bread. Soon it will restore the vision. This is tested.

Another for shortsightedness. Take a quantity of rue and strong vinegar and cook the rue in it and when the pot boils, put a basin over it and some steam will adhere under it. Collect this in a glass and with this bathe the eyes repeatedly and it will help greatly to make the vision long and you will see nearly as well as at first. Take care of the way you live.

Water for an eye that burns.

