Another to dry running eyes. Take 1 ounce of zinc oxide, ½ dram of hepatic aloe, rose water, water of agrimony and of gooseberry, of fennel, of myrtle, of strawberry, of rue and of celandine, each ½ ounce. Put everything together in a bottle, well closed, and put it in the sun for 8 days. In the morning when you get up, bathe the eyes and also during the day, and you will see a wonderful effect from this water. It has been tested many times.

Another for dryness of the eyes. Take incense and make smoke from it in the face, eyes and nose and put the smoke in a stupe in your nightcap and put it on your head when you go to sleep. Do this for three evenings and soon you will be cured.

Another for any dryness of the eyes. Gather all these herbs in the first week of May, viz.: celandine, burdock, rue and fennel, each the same amount. Grind them and extract juice, each one by itself, and of each kind take 3 ounces and put them together and put in a few rose leaves and 3 ounces of white sugar and 2 ½  each of dragon's blood gum and zinc oxide. All these things should be pulverized very finely. Put them together to distill in glass on a slow fire. Then leave it for 10 to 15 days in the sun, tightly closed, and it will be made. Use it at your pleasure in the morning and evening and soon you will be cured, through God's grace.

Another for the eye that tears. Take whites of 2 fresh eggs, layed that day, and beat them so that they become like water, that is into foam, and let them settle so that all the foam is reduced. Then strain it. Put in rose water from white roses and as much fine or white sugar as equals a hazel nut and incorporate it well and, with a feather, wet inside the eye and let it stay. Then put it in again and you will be cured.

Water for the eye, wonderful for dryness and use nothing else. Take 2 lb. of Greek wine, 6 ounces of white sugar and distill in glass. Then add 1 lb. of water distilled from eyebright and leave it in the sun for 20 days and it will be perfect for dryness of the eyes.

Marvelous unguent for the eyes.

Take 2 ounces of fresh, washed butter, 2 drams of zinc oxide, ½ dram of camphor, 1 dram of hepatic aloe and ½ scruple of amber and pulverize everything. Then put the butter on the fire and when it is melted, put therein the above-described powder and at once remove it from the fire and mix it until it becomes like an unguent. Rub the eyes with this in the evening and the morning and soon you will be cured. It is tested.

Another for the eye that has milkiness or cataract. Take 2 or 3 handfuls of fennel, rue, burdock, celandine, clary, tips of brambles and pine nuts, enough that each one makes a glass of juice. Also take enough so that each one makes one glass of water extract in the glass still. Do not distill them in lead because that is bad. Then take as much rose water as one of these parts. Put all the juices and the waters together. Then take one pound of Alexandrine zinc plaster already prepared. Heat the zinc plaster well and cool this composition and do this for 7 times. Let it dry in the shade for 8 days. Then grind it very finely in a mortar of bronze. Put the zinc powder in a bowl and put thereon the water previously prepared and mix it one more time and let it dry in the shade. Grind it finely on a slab of porphyry until no more roughness or graininess is seen. Save it in a vessel of glass or well-baked clay, well covered. When you wish to treat, take a stylus of silver and wet the tip and put it in the powder and that much of it put in the eye under the palpebra in the evening when you go to sleep and also in the day when you will be able to stay in repose. Using the powder in this way has the property of removing that heavy humor that is the milkiness or cataract that descends in the eye caused by the heavy humors. During this time take care of yourself.

(Two remedies are crossed out here.)

Another for sickness in the eyes. Take some ivy picked when it has a reddish color throughout the month of May and grind it very finely and put it together with raw honey and incorporate well. Then put it in a bottle, well covered, in the sun for 15 days and it will be made. Then put some of the medicine in the eyes. It dries up any bad illness and makes the sight marvelously healthy and clear.

Marvelous, tested secret for the eyes.

