Take juices of all of these, viz.: of celery, fennel, burdock, rue, betony, agrimony, strawberry, germander, burnet saxifrage, eyebright, and savin, each the same amount, and mix all these juices together and take 12 grains of pepper ground very fine and put the juices with the powder in a mortar with 2 spoonfuls of honey and some urine from a little baby and incorporate everything together and it will be made. Then rub your eyes with this in the morning and evening and if, by chance, the juice has dried, add some of the said urine. Otherwise, add some juice of these herbs, viz.: ground ivy, fennel, celery, burdock, germander, sage, clover and rue and make juice of these herbs and incorporate it with the above and with this continue to bathe your eyes and soon you will be cured.

Another juice for the eyes. Take the herb plantain with the roots when is is mature. Wash it well, grind it and extract the juice and with this rub the eyes morning and evening and soon you will be cured and the eyes will be sharpened.

Another water for the eyes and to remove pain. Take juice of celandine, rue, fennel and plantain, 1 ounce each, zinc oxide prepared 9 times in rose water and bile of a bull, ½ dram each, and 3 ounces of cleaned honey and enough rose water. Put everything in a bottle and put it in the sun for 8 days. Then use it to treat at your pleasure and it helps you greatly, not just a little.

Another water for the eyes. Take fennel, rue, burdock, rose and celandine, each the same amount, and of these herbs make water in the glass still and with this water wash the eyes thoroughly and it will give you good vision.

Another water for sick eyes. Take ½ dram of zinc oxide, 4 scruples of camphor and grind them together finely. Then take half a handful of rue and put everything together to boil in a clean pot in sweet white wine until it reduces one third and when it is cool, strain it carefully, put it in a closed bottle and reboil it in a pot of water on a bain marie. Then leave it in the sun for 8 to 10 days and it will be made. Treat with it in the morning and evening to bathe the eyes. Be careful in your way of living and keep from things unfavorable to you.

