Note that these things make the sight young, that is, juice of strawberry cures the web, fennel, rue, burdock, rosemary, celandine, honey, aloe, fennel, zinc carbonate, myrrh, good wine, mother's milk, rose water and dove's blood and many other things that I do not write down. Know that all these things are used to brighten the vision of clouded and dim eyes for us to see. Keep these in mind if you want to cure quickly.

These are the herbs that are good for our sight, cooked in water. With this water wash your face and it will help you greatly to maintain good sight always and without any impediment: celandine, eyebright, verbena, rue, fennel and pennyroyal. If you use these herbs cooked in water and wash your face with them, know that from day to day you will find yourself much more satisfied through using these tested things.

To clarify the sight rapidly.

Take juice of cottonweed and let it stand for one night. Then strain it and put it in a bottle and put therein a little zinc oxide and fine sugar and with this rub the eyes three times a day and you will be cured.

Artificial balsam, very good for any illness of the eyes, the ears and for ringworm.

Take 6 ounces of turpentine, 6 ounces of white incense, 1 ounce of Succotrine aloe, mastic, galingale, cloves, cinnamon, citron, cubeb, nutmeg, 1 dram each, and 6 ounces of milk of fig as fresh as you can get it, and make this composition into fine powder and mix it together in the form of dough. Then put the dough in a glass still with its cover and underneath put its collector and distill the dough with very little fire. Be aware that you will extract 3 kinds of water and collect each in its place and when you see the still change color, change the collector and keep the top well covered so that no steam comes out, and of this be very vigilant because this is of much importance as you will see in the result. Note well that the first water that comes out is called 'water of balsam,' the second is called 'oil of balsam' and the third is called 'artificial balsam,' a liquor that is powerful for abcessed wounds and for infected legs, and cures them quickly. It is powerful in scrophulas, in swollen and tearing eyes and in dizziness. Know how to use this water; these are some of its virtues, viz.:

Note that the first water has these virtues: it cures the eyes with swollen eyelids, rheum and tearing and any other infirmity or swelling of the eyes. By wetting some fine cloth in this water and putting it on the eye in the evening and the morning, you will soon be cured.

Another. It clears ringing in the ears. Put it in with a little cottonwool in the evening when you go to sleep and again in the morning and you will be cured.

Another. It is powerful for ringworm and scabies. Bathe yourself with it in the evening when you go to sleep.

Another. I tell you that this blessed balsam is powerful against venomous bites and for pains from cold, putting it on with wet cloths. It is very powerful for blows and for paralysis, through its warming and penetrance. It cures the bad blood between flesh and skin that is putrefied. Certainly this is the best balsam by this great and manifest proof. Do this experiment: take a chicken, plucked and clean and well dried. Then scald it very well in the fire. Then smear it very well with the balsam water 2 or 3 times. Let it dry in the sun and it will never spoil at any time. The balsam even has many other virtues that are not written here. Be very diligent to know how to distill it and it will bring you honor.

To cure one who is deaf but not from birth, and even many other infirmities relating to this deafness, approved in several ways, viz.:

Take a fat eel of 5 or 6 pounds, cut it in little bits and thread them on a spit and cook them without anything else and collect the fat that is extracted. Then add 1 ounce of fresh bitter almond oil and incorporate it well on the fire and it will be made. Save it for your needs. When you wish to use it, heat it and wet cottonwool and put it in the ear. Then put thereon some leaves of greater sedum and fasten them on with a bandage. Do this several times and it will help greatly.

Another for those who have roaring in the ears. Take the herb house leek and make some juice and boil it until it is cleared. Then in the evening when you go to sleep, put it in the ear as warm as you can stand, with cottonwool in the ear where one hears the roaring. Do this several times and you will be cured of such roaring.

Another for the roaring in the ears. Take a root of cyclamen and make a hollow in the form of a little bowl and put therein almond oil and lily oil, ½ ounce each, with a little saffron. Then put it on warm ashes to boil. Put it warm in the ear with cottonwool, well bandaged and warm. The same is very powerful to break open an abcess that may be on the head. This is a unique remedy.

For one who is beginning not to hear. Take the herb rue and extract juice and put it in a bottle, well closed. Then make bread dough and put the bottle in the middle, well covered. Put it in the oven and cook it with other breads and when it is cooked, remove the bottle from the bread and put this juice in the ears 2 or 3 times a day and soon you will be cured.

Another for the illness of deafness. Take the sap that comes out of the ash tree and place it in the ears with cottonwool. It makes the pain go away and makes the hearing good.

Another. Take some cyclamen root, extract the juice, and take an equal amount of asses' milk and boil these. Put it in the ears as warm as you can on cottonwool so that it does not leak and bind it on, and soon you will be cured, through God's grace.

For serious deafness. Take a gall bladder of a rabbit and aged ordinary oil and a little cleaned honey with saffron and mix everything together and boil it a little, not too much. Then remove it from the fire and when it is cold put in a little mother's milk. Then put some in the ears, warm, 2 times a day, and it will have a very good effect. By continuing it you will make your hearing much more acute, so that soon you will hear.

Another for deafness of the ears. Take 1 ½ ounces of bitter almond oil, 1 dram of bile from a bull or an ox, and 2 grains of ground black hellebore and 5 drams each of musk and vinegar, and boil everything together until the vinegar is used up. Then strain it through a fine cloth. In the evening put it in the ears, warm, with cottonwool, and through God's grace, soon you will hear.

Another when an ear commonly exudes matter. Take some rind of pomegranate and extract juice and make it hot and put it in the ear with cottonwool and soon it will clear it and make it healthy, because it has been tested.

