To cure rapidly the deafness, ringing and hissing that comes in the ears. Take 6 ounces of old olive oil and half a handful of house leek and boil until it is thickened. Then strain it and press it very well between 2 boards. Then take 1 dram each of brandy from the third distillation and mineral oil and incorporate the pressed house leek with this oil and put it on a slow fire until it boils and is thickened, stirring constantly. Then it is made. Save it and when you need it, use it in this way, especially in the evening when you go to sleep: make it warm and wet it in piled up cottonwool and put it in the ear for 8 to 10 evenings and you will soon be free of such ringing and hissing that comes at times after sickness or with the difficulty of motherhood with women. You will be cured of it rapidly because it is tested.

Another for ringing and roaring in the ears. Take fresh sweet almond oil and heat it well and wet some cottonwool in the oil and put it in the ear. Do this several times in this way and it will help you greatly with the roaring.

For one who may have ringing and blowing enough that he would seem to have a windmill turning in the ears. Take a vessel for oil, that is a jug or pot where oil has been standing for a long time. Take 2 ounces of fresh coriander and grind it and put it in the vessel of oil. Then put the vessel on warm ashes, which vessel has nothing in the oil except the powder of coriander and make it very warm. Then put the ear to the mouth of the vessel so all that warmth is received in your sick ear or receive the fomentation in one ear after the other, each time at least a half hour. Do this for 4 or 5 days and it will help you greatly as you will see at the end of 4 days. If you are not freed, do this other best remedy, that is, take coriander and make juice according to our method and put therein 3 quatrini of tinting saffron. Then make it very warm and wet cottonwool in it and put this warm in the ear and in this way, through God's grace, you will be cured.

Fomentation for the ears to remove the roaring caused by illness. Take one handful each of wormwood, good mint, marjoram and camomile and cook them in good wine. Then put a smooth stone in the middle, that is on the pan, but not in the wine. Place yourself with the bad ear on the stone that is very warm and take the fomentation in the ear so that it is well heated inside. Put in 3 drops of oil of rue or of bitter almond and put them on a little dry cottonwool, several times, and soon you will be cured.

Another for sickness in the ears. Take juice of rue, of white onions, of leeks and of wormwood and woman's milk, each the same amount, and ordinary oil and boil everything together until it reduces one-fourth. Then rub from the ears to the wrists and also put a little in the ear with cottonwool. Do this for 3 days in a row and soon you will be cured.

Put the juice of mallow in a little pot and cover it with a very dry crust of bread with an opening in the middle and boil it slowly and hold your bad ear over the opening of the pot until it is very warm and do it several times and you will be cured.

