Take mint, sage, pennyroyal, rosemary, hyssop, artemisia, horse mint, mountain mint, camomile, tansy, burdock, wormwood, southern wood and centaury, 1 handful each, and boil them with wine in a clean pot, reducing the wine from 4 fingers to 3, reducing 1/3. Then take 2 ounces of old oil, oil of leeks and of almonds, each 1 ounce, juice of rue 1 ounce, malvasia wine 1 ½ ounces and put them in a vessel. Then refill it with the above wine in which the herbs have been well pressed under the press. Put this vessel to boil in front of the fire until it reduces the juice and the malvasia. Then remove it from the fire and put therein these things, finely pulverized: lavender, colocynth, musk and mastic, each 1 ½ grains, and cork the vessel well and put it in a pot full of water and boil it for nearly 3 hours. Then remove it from the fire and let it stay in the sun until it becomes clear. Strain it through fine cloth and press out the substance well. Then take 3 grains of fine musk, well cut up, and incorporate with the oil. So that all will be well incorporated, shake it upside down. Then save it in a suitable vessel of glass, well covered with wax and parchment. Take the pot with those herbs and the wine that is remaining and heat it and when it is very hot put a funnel on the pot with the large end on the pot and make the narrow end enter the ear and take that steam for one half hour. From the fomentation that was made, take that oil very warm, and put 2 or 3 drops in the ear and cover it with heaped up cottonwool and at once go to sleep. When you use the fomentation, hold some dry beans in the mouth and break them up with your teeth and chew them well and spit them out. This is done to open all the porosity of the ears. And with the grace of God, soon you will be cured if it is possible that through medicine it can be cured. Many are cured in this way. If by chance the illness is not cured or there is no improvement, do not do anything else since this is the ultimate remedy. And do not marvel that any roaring comes in the ears not present before, only following the ointment, because this is a good sign of beginning to open the porosity, and do not doubt him who has suffered such infirmity for 30 years. I do not say from birth. Know that in a short time, through God's grace, you will see a great miracle. Use the pills plentifully that purge the head and eat good food and stay warm, nothing else.

Another to heal an ear that gives out pus. Take 2 ounces of urine of a healthy child, 4 ounces of white wine and 2 ½ ounces of white honey and juice of mint and of rue, each one ounce, and put everything together and boil it very slowly. Then remove it from the fire and strain it and add ½ ounce of mother's milk and with this, tepid, repeatedly wash the ear when it exudes pus and put in some cottonwool and be confident that soon you will be cured.

Another for one who does not hear well. Take 1 handful of marjoram, cut and well ground, and boil it with malvasia wine and ordinary oil on a bain marie until the malvasia is given off. Then strain it and put this oil in the ears that have difficulty in hearing. Do it in winter and not in summer, for that will make you sick. Put it on warm with cottonwool and soon you will hear. It is tested.

To stop blood that comes from the nose, which has not been stopped by other remedies.

Take 6 ounces of heated gypsum, 3 ounces of dragon's blood gum, 2 ounces of Armenian red clay, 1 ½ ounces of clay from Lemnos, juice of nettle, white bread crumbs, soot and juice of cinquefoil, each 2 ounces, and whites of 3 fresh eggs and strong vinegar and rose water, and finely pulverize everything and then mix everything together very well. Then spread it out on a little cloth large enough to cover the forehead. First write these 3 words on the forehead with the patient's blood, that is, ' gibel, ghoe, gabohr,' written with a little stick. Then put on the plaster and let it stay at least for 3 days before you remove it, if it can stay that long. Also if it was a wound and the blood has not been stopped, write around it the 3 words already mentioned and put on this plaster and leave it for 3 days and the blood will stop. More will not come. It has been tested.

Another to stop blood that comes from the nose. Take some of the herb shepherd's purse and grind it and make juice and wet some cottonwool and put it in the nares of the nose. Do this several times and you will cure.

To stop blood from the nose. Take the herb cinquefoil and crush it between 2 stones. Then put it in the openings of the nose and change it frequently and you will cure this. Write with the patient's blood on the forehead the name of Ao and as the blood dries, that from the nose is stopped.

Another to stop blood from the nose. Take knot grass, that is polygonum, grind and extract juice and then take some eggshells and make very fine powder and mix with the juice. Then wet some cottonwool and put it in the opening of the nose and hold your breath. Do this several times and soon you will be cured. You can be certain that this is a good remedy.

Another, better way to stop blood from the nose and also from wounds. Say these 4 words, that is: 'In Bethlehem a child was born. Constrict vein and stop blood. + Father and Son + and Holy Spirit + Amen' and when you say them, hold your hand on the head or on the wound and say it 3 times, with a Pater Noster at the end each time. Know that if this is learned by heart on Christmas Eve, then it is more powerful at any other time, because this has been tested many, many times and do not marvel that it is true.

Another to stop blood from the nose. Take copper sulfate and heat it and make fine powder and take pulverized dragon's blood gum, each the same amount. Take the white of an egg, beaten, and wet a stupe in it and put the powder on it. Then put it on the forehead, bound firmly, and soon the blood will be stopped. Tested.

For a break in the nose caused by descent of humors.

Take 1 handful of rue, cut minutely, and put in the rind of an onion and put in ordinary oil and a little butter and cook it on warm ashes until it becomes like an unguent. Then take a feather and smear the nose carefully, several times, and soon you will be cured.

Another to stop blood from the nose. Take the root of rue and grind it and make fine powder and draw it up in the nose several times and it will be clotted. Also, ashes made of rue and incorporated with the urine of a healthy man and put on the forehead, stop the blood rapidly.

Another to hold back the blood. Take ½ dram each of mummy, saccharine alum, Armenian red clay and tragacanth gum and some spider web and a little soot and compound them. If this does not suffice, take egg white and incorporate it and put it on and soon it will be stopped, I say rapidly.

To remove the bad flesh that grows in the nose, that is polyps.

Take leeks that are young and have not been transplanted and extract their juice and with a little new wax make it into an ointment and add in a little very fine powder of tartaric acid from the wine cask and mix them well together. Then with this ointment, rub the nose inside and soon you will be cured of the polyps.

Most perfect water for curing ulcers and polyps in the nose. Take a glass vial full of cistern water, about a half ounce, and disperse in it ½ ounce of dried rock alum as well as natural saltpeter, half a handful of rue and a little less than an ounce of pomegranate rind. Boil everything together until one-third part is consumed. The more the water is concentrated, the better the water will be.

For one who has the nose broken inside. Pound a white onion and make juice out of it and draw it up in the nose and it will cure.

Unguent for rubbing the nose between the eyebrows and inside, evening and morning. Take sesame oil, violet oil, oil of sweet almonds, each ½ ounce, 6 drams of linseed oil, strained chicken fat, washed rancid butter, water of marjoram and white wax, each 3 ounces. Mix them and make an unguent.

To cure split lips around the mouth.

Take roasted ox hooves and make powder of them and roasted leaves of leeks, all in very fine powder, each the same amount, and incorporate them with sufficient drams of honey and rub it on in the evening and soon you will be cured.

Another to cure hands damaged from cold. Take mastic, incense, clean wax and rose oil, each the same amount, and make an unguent and rub the hands and you will be cured rapidly.

