Grease for split lips and cracked hands and feet and other developing soreness, viz: Take 1 ounce each of goat fat and beef marrow, 2 ounces of clean wax, 1 ½ ounces each of rose and violet oils, ½ ounce each of oils of St. John's wort and balsam and 4 scruples of camphor. First cut the fat finely and put it on the fire with the marrow and when it is melted, strain it through cloth. Then put it again in the pot with the cut wax and all the oils and stir well so everything is incorporated together. Put in a very little salt ground like flour because it does not melt. Then remove it from the fire and put in the camphor, cut up, and stir until it is cold, and it will be made. If you want to strain it again when cold, do this before you put in the camphor. Afterward, save it carefully for your needs. The older it is, the better for all these infirmities: first in all developing sores, boils and fistulas, for pain from hemorrhoids, for choler with fever, for cracks in the lips around the mouth, for cracks on hands and feet and for the swelling on the knees. It has many other virtues that you will learn daily. It removes pain rapidly in all these infirmities, reduces them and warms them. Continue to rub with it cold in the evening and morning and for hemorrhoids it should be tepid. It has been used many times for chilblains.

For pain in the teeth and any other distress caused by dry mouth or from the stomach. Viz. Take ½ handful each of sage, hyssop, myrtle, mastic and olive leaves. The herbs should be fresh. Cut them coarsely and add two cut dry figs and 20 grains of pepper, broken coarsely. Put everything to boil in a clean pot with white wine until it is reduced in half. Strain it carefully. Then hold this wine in the mouth as warm as you can bear. This kills the decay, strengthens the gums and teeth and makes the breath good.

If you want to extract a tooth without implements, say, 'In the name of the Father, Son and Holy Spirit, Amen. Dodo machabeo baruto o grassbii.' Draw the tooth and it will come out without pain. This has been shown.

Another to make the teeth firm. Take 2 drams each of male incense, dragon's blood gum, that is the tears from the tree, hematite stone, myrtle seeds, roots and seeds of peony, lavender, cubeb and cloves, 5 drams each of whole red roses, Armenian red clay and cinnamon and 1 dram each of mace, nutmeg and red coral. Mix everything with myrtle syrup, rose honey and sugar. Then put it on the gums and on the teeth and it will restore you to health.

Another for teeth that may have a hole or may have a worm in them. Take dilute nitric acid and put a little cottonwool on the tip of a fine iron rod and wet it in this acid. Then with dexterity put the wet cottonwool into the opening in the tooth and let it stay there well pressed in for an hour or more. Do this 2 or 3 times a day and soon it will kill the worm. If it is on an upper tooth, make the patient turn with the head down so that the nitric acid can penetrate more easily. It will soon free one from such distress.

Another for pain of the teeth which have made the jaw swell. Take rosemary, sage, wormwood, pepper and ginger, each the same amount. Then boil them in good, strong wine and hold this wine in the mouth as warm as you can and do this several times in the day and soon you will be cured.

Also to remove this suffering caused by the teeth: take strong vinegar and a little ground camphor and put it in a bottle and heat it. Put this warm in the mouth and soon it lifts your pain.

Also for this pain from the teeth. Take betony and boil it with strong vinegar and put therein a little honey and boil it enough so it reduces 1/3 and hold this boiled liquid in the mouth as warm as you can and soon it will remove your pain and you will be cured.

To remove a tooth without implements using a celandine root.

Take the root of celandine, that is swallow wort, and touch the tooth that you want to remove and no others. Do this 3 or 4 times and it will fall out from its place, little by little, but no others.

Another for one who has decayed teeth. Take 1 ounce each of the juice of the root of bryony and of its leaves and 6 ounces of the root of white lily and incorporate them and cook them sufficiently. Then wash your teeth with this warm and do this in the month of May. Continue it for 8 to 15 days and you will be cured of tooth decay.

Another for pain in the teeth. Take ½ ounce each of brandy and rose honey and root of Roman pellitory and 10 grains of pepper and heat every thing together and put it in your mouth at the place of the pain and hold it for ½ hour and it will lift your pain. Do it several times and you will feel no more pain. It is tested.

Water that makes the teeth white.

Take 1 lb. each of ordinary salt and white rock alum, and 2 ounces of sodium nitrate and make everything into fine powder and incorporate well together* and put it in a glass flask and distill it on a bain marie and extract all the water that can come out of it and save it in a bottle, well stoppered. Then when you want to make your teeth white, first clean them with some paste that removes any tartar that you will find there. Then take a little stick of mastic tree (or of any other kind, it does not matter) and wet the tip of the little stick in this water and touch only the teeth and you will see the teeth become as white as the tooth of a dog and you will be very satisfied with it. If you touch the gums with it you will feel a little sharp sting, delicate and gentle, but you will feel nothing more than that. This will please you greatly and the teeth will stay very white. It has been tested many times.

*with sufficient lemon juice and leave it to infuse for 24 hours and distill it in a glass still on a slow fire.

Water that makes the teeth white, removes trick letters from parchment and also warts and corns.

Take copper sulfate, cinnabar, emery, ammonium chloride, eyebright, ordinary salt and native sulfur, each at your discretion, and grind everything finely and incorporate well and distill it in a glass still on a slow fire and you will make water of 3 kinds. The first will be white, which will be good to make the teeth white with a small stick and to remove trick letters from parchment. The second is somewhat yellow and removes warts and corns from flesh. The third is red, when the fire is increased, and this water heats up iron and breaks it and it cannot be kept except in thick glass. This water will bring you great honor. Do not alter the rules.

Another to make teeth white for your pleasure and to give a little entertainment. Take a husk, that is a shell of a chestnut that is ripe, dry it and make fine powder, and take the same amount of nettle seeds, and incorporate them together. With this powder rub the teeth and also touch a little on the gums, first cleaning the teeth of everything unsightly as is described above, so they become very white. But it heats the gums so much that it seems one has a fire in the mouth and it takes so much water that one is amazed at how great is the heat that is felt in the gums. When you want to end the joke, make this remedy in a moment. Take a little rose water and a little ground white sugar and put them together and put this water in the mouth and at once it removes the heat and nothing else and the teeth remain white and you will have had this entertainment.

Another to make them white with this powder. Take shavings of deer horn and grind them finely and rub into powder. Put this in a little linen cloth and make a button. Then rub your teeth. By continuing this they will stay very white, almost forever.

For the pain in the teeth after eating sour things.

