Take some purslane, that is fresh portulaca, and when your teeth are on edge and it worries you that you will not be able to eat sour things, rub the teeth very well and it will go away. Also with a little salt or a crumb of cheese masticated very well by the teeth, the problem goes away at once. This has been tested many times.

Best remedy for quinsy, that is soreness that comes in the throat.

Take barley water and diamoron and make a gargle with it. Then take oil of camomile, oil of white lilies and chicken fat, each the same amount, and boil them on a slow fire until they are incorporated. Then with this ointment, rub the sore place under the throat and around to the ears, rubbing well for a while. Then put on a layer of good warm stupe and wrap it and do this in the evening when you go to sleep. Then take the root of Roman pellitory and hold it in the mouth and hold it open, that is under the tongue. If by chance the teeth may have closed, so that through distress the mouth cannot be opened, open it by force and take a leek and roll it in rose honey and put it almost in the throat, forward and back 2 or 3 times and do it quickly and then let him spit out as much as he can and soon you will make a cure. Do not let him drink wine at least for 2 days and eat only bread soup and refreshing things and he will be cured.

Another for sore throat. Take yellow amber, about 8 pieces, and break it coarsely and place it on burning charcoal in a flat pan onto which is a funnel of tin with the large end on the flat pan so that smoke cannot go any other way than up. Put your mouth to the hole from above and in this way you receive all the smoke. Swallow it in the throat and in a short time you will be cured. It is tested.

Another to cure sore throat quickly. Take an apple of the green kind and cook it on the fire. Then peel it and mix the pulp with enough raw honey and put it warm on the gullet in the front of the throat where it hurts you and do this in the evening and morning and soon you will be cured. Observe the rules below. This has been tested by a Reverend Carthusian Priest in Lucca in 1561.

Another very good remedy for sore throat. Take a handful each of parsley root, fennel root and pellitory of the wall, and 3 fresh egg whites. Boil these roots enough to extract them and crush them in a mortar. Then fry them in a frying pan with oil of camomile, not too much. Then extract them and put in a little barley flour and those 3 egg whites and incorporate well in the form of a poultice and, as warm as one can stand, put it on the sore place where it aches in the throat. Do this several more times, first extracting blood where it is needed and you will cure rapidly.

Another for choking. Take 4 or 5 cloves of garlic and peel them and put them intact in a little pan with as much chopped pork lard as a walnut and fry it some and put it in a little dish and make it very warm and rub under the throat and on the arms over the wrists and wrap the throat with a warm stupe and do it 2 evenings and soon you will be cured. But do not drink wine for 2 days.

Another for the quinsy that comes in the throat. Take some chantarelle mushrooms, well pounded with yeast from wheat, and put it on the chest and behind on the shoulders opposite, so that it does not touch the neck. It will make certain delicate blisters that break open and give off water which is the malady of the sore throat, so in this way it is cleaned.

For falling of the uvula in the throat.

