Take some of the herb hyssop, fresh or dry, and heat it in a little pan and put it warm on the forehead or on the head. This is powerful against cold catarrh and in depression of the uvula. For this falling, take this herb and cook it in very strong vinegar and gargle with it several times and soon it will be cured. Stay warm.

For one who has bad breath caused by the stomach.

Take 1 ounce of powdered sage, 3 ounces of flowers of tamarind, 5 drams of powdered cloves, 2 drams of fine cinnamon, one nutmeg and 2 grains of musk and make everything into fine powder. Then take as much purified honey as suffices to incorporate this powder on a slow fire. Leave it for 3 or 4 days in the sun until it is made into a confection by the sun. Then keep it in a glass vessel for your needs. Take as much as half a chestnut in the morning, during the day and in the evening when you go to sleep . By continuing this you will have good breath and you will feel the smell from the stomach no more. Also it is a protection in time of plague, from which God guard us, to take in the morning before you leave the house, because it is very antagonistic to the bad odors which hurt our heads, for which this confection is very useful.

Another for the bad smell of the breath caused by the stomach. Take 1 dram each of dry citron, sedge, fragrant lavender, cloves, nutmeg, aloe, cinnamon, mastic and cubeb, and make them into very fine powder. Then make a paste with pomegranate wine and make little balls like beans and dry them in the shade. Put one in the mouth in the morning and hold it there a little and then swallow it. You will feel it give a little of its comforting odor which will comfort your mind and will give you good-smelling breath, and dispose the stomach to have good digestion.

Another to dispose the stomach to send up good breath and to clear up flatulence. Take 2 drams of cinnamon, 3 drams each of nutmeg and cubeb, 1 dram each of ginger, grains of paradise, galingale and cloves, 1 scruple of cardamon and 4 ounces of fine sugar. Make fine powder of everything and incorporate them together and save it for your needs. When you have a bad stomach, take a little of it in the morning with broth or warm wine and soon the trouble with the stomach will pass away. It removes flatulence and gives you good breath for all day. These are tested.

Another for removing bad smell from the mouth. Take cinnamon and ginger and cook them in strong vinegar and frequently wash the mouth with this. It is not harmful to drink this vinegar, and you will be cured of the bad odor of the mouth.

Another for one whose breath smells bad. The unfortunate one drinks a glass of his urine early every morning. It will help a great deal, and again if you wash the mouth with vinegar in which some mint has been cooked, the bad breath will be gone quickly. It is tested.

To remove pain and suffering rapidly from teeth.

Take very strong vinegar and put one glassful on the fire in a little pot and put in three quatrini of ground pepper and boil it a little. Then take it from the fire and put therein 1 ounce of rose honey and incorporate well. Then put it in the mouth, warm, several times and also heat the cheek from the outside and soon the pain of the tooth will go away.

Another for one who may not be able to speak or may be impeded because of dry mouth. Take root of Roman pellitory and hold it in the mouth under the tongue and it will remove the dryness. Spit it out and you will be cured rapidly.

Another for bad breath. Take mint and boil it with vinegar and wash the mouth with this several times and it will help you greatly. And if the bad breath comes from the stomach, take brandy, powdered nutmeg and cloves and incorporate them and drink it any time that you want to talk and it will cure you at once. When you go to sleep, gargle with vinegar and eat some pennyroyal or thyme and it will rapidly cure bad breath caused by the stomach. It is tested.

For paralysis of the tongue, hand and other members.

Take 1 handful each of powder of musk, and lesser, middle and greater nettles with their roots and sage and roots of burdock, betony, savin and lovage, and wash them and mince them minutely. Then put them in a suitable vessel and put in some wine to the depth of 2 fingers and let it stand at least 4 to 6 days, well covered. Then begin to drink it every day for 10 to 12 days and when this is finished, add more wine and by continuing this, with God's grace, you will be cured quickly.

Another for one whose hands or head tremble. Take leaves of sage and chop them very fine and put them to infuse in white wine. Then give one glass to the patient to drink every morning, warm, in the form of a syrup and he should not eat for at least 3 hours. This will help him greatly. Then make this ointment. Take juice of wormwood and boil it in ordinary oil until all the juice is used up and with this oil, very warm, rub the member that is paralyzed, that is one that has a tremor, and do it several times and it will aid you a great deal.

Another for one whose hands tremble. Take wild sage, grind it and extract juice and make a paste with a little flour. Then put therein the same herb and make a pancake and eat it warm. Do this several times and it will help you greatly for paralysis of the hands.

Another for one who may have difficulty speaking from some infirmity Take a leaf of lovage with a little musk and put it under the tongue and in a few days you will speak as fluently as before, through God's grace.

Oil that is powerful for paralysis and contraction of nerves and spasm and epilepsy and for all cold infirmities.

Take 6 ounces of galbanum gum and 3 ounces of ivy gum, finely ground, and mix together and distill in a glass vessel and at first water will come out. On increasing the fire you will have oil. Put them together. Then put in 1 ounce of laurel oil and 1 lb. of turpentine and 3 ounces of brandy made with flowers of tamarind and again distill the water and the oil. Separate the water from the oil and keep the oil as a balsam which will be very white and is equivalent to balsam in all its virtues, viz: a drop of this oil was put on the forehead of a paralytic and another drop on his navel, and at once he raised himself and was freed. Another was dosed in the place where he had pain from a wound with contracted nerves; those places were rubbed warm and soon he was freed. And in other diverse or very different infirmities, it was proved that this oil is miraculous and has great power. Rub the occiput in the evening with this warm oil on going to sleep and in the morning eat ½ ounce of raisins of the dark kind and this improves the memory greatly so that it makes one remember even things past and makes the memory very good and the intellect clear. It is powerful against frigidity and other infirmities caused by coldness.

For every ache developing in the throat caused by heating.

Take lesser sedum, grind it and extract as much juice as you can and give it to the patient to drink and wet some cloths in this juice and put it on the throat where it is feverish. Even if it is caused by dry heating, it will soon be cured.

Another to make the speech fluent. Take two leaves of mint and when you go to sleep or at daybreak, rub your tongue with these leaves and shortly it will make your speech fluent.

To cure goiter, that is a bulge or enlarged throat.

Take 1 ounce each from sea urchin, sponge, gall from wild roses, that is bedeguar, and dry them in the oven in a pot well covered so no steam escapes. Take 2 scruples each of long and round pepper, starfish and cuttlefish bone, ½ ounce each of cardamon and tartaric acid from red wine and 1 scruple of powdered cloves, and make all of these things into very fine powder and incorporate with a little strong vinegar. Then take flower of wheat and a little fine sugar and make a paste of everything together and make wafers and cook them in a baking pan. In the evening when you go to sleep, take one of these little discs under the tongue and sleep on your back. In the morning drink a drop of vinegar and continue this sequence for several days. Do this in the spring or in the autumn. Take care of yourself. Do not eat legumes nor pork meat nor any kind of acid fruits. Use watered wine reasonably and with boiled water. Continuing this also makes thin those who are too fat. By continuing this you will cure the lump or goiter and it reduces the enlarged throat. Be certain that this has been tested.

Another to remove the goiter with a powder. Take 1 dram each of long pepper and saffron, 1 ½ drams each of ginger, cinnamon and cloves, 3 drams of roasted sponge made into fine powder and 2 egg yolks and everything should be made into fine powder and incorporated well. Use a mold to cook and bake it in the oven. Then grind it and make a fine powder and when the patient is going to sleep he takes a little in his mouth under the tongue. Do this several times and soon the lump will go away and he will become as at first.

Another to remove the goiter that comes in the throat. Take 8 grains of long pepper and 8 grains of sorghum that is white inside and as much clean and fine sponge as an egg. Have in mind when the moon begins to wane and in that first Friday of the waning, begin to toast all the sponge and as it is browning, scrape it up little by little in the pan. Then brown the grains of millet, that is of the common millet or Turkey millet or sorghum, and put it together with the sponge and the powdered long pepper and grind it finely and put everything together. Then take a little fine flour and 2 fresh egg yolks, layed on that Friday, and incorporate everything together and put in a little fine sugar and mix everything into a dough. Make it into a little pancake and cook it on the grill. When it is cooked make it into six parts and in one evening yes, the next no, take one of these parts in the evening and go to sleep with that in your mouth. Do all these thing in the same way on the first Friday of the waning moon, that is do the cooking, and the goiter will disappear, of this do not fear. And if, by chance, the goiter may not go away completely this first time, do it a second time and even, if needed, do it a third time and, if not all then, you may do it again and keep to the rules, neither more nor less, than you did at first. So not fear anything and with the aid of God, soon it will go away. This recipe has been tested many times by those who are worthy of belief.

Another to remove goiter that comes in the throat. Take 6 ounces of laurel oil, 3 ounces each of white frankincense, mastic, gum arabic, and clear turpentine and incorporate everything in a mortar and distill all this material in glass and extract the water. Then put a bowl of ashes in this water and redistill it and save this water as something dear. Then with this water, rub the goiter on the outside several times and soon it will disappear into nothing, through the power of this water.

Wonderful water for cattarh.

