Very fine electuary against catarrh.

Take ½ ounce each of cumin, prepared coriander and flowers of rosemary and half a dram each of pepper, cinnamon and saffron, 3 drams of tartar from white wine, ½ ounce of juice of rue and as much cleaned honey as needed. Everything should be ground and finely pulverized. Then mix everything together and you will make a good electuary. Then at supper take a dose and you will see a wonderful effect in a few days.

For one who has tremor of the head and also the hands.

Take roots of peony and roots of erba bona and of parsley and dill seed, each the same amount, and boil all these things in well water in a clean pan until it reduces in half. Then strain it and press the herbs well and use this decoction to drink in the morning as a syrup and soon you will be cured. Also take the center of a loaf of bread and make toast and put this warm to soften in very strong vinegar and soak it well. Then put it on the paralyzed or shaking member and you will see a great improvement.

Another. Take some sage and boil it and with this decoction wash the arms and hands and let it dry on them. Then take the juice of this sage and with this rub your hands repeatedly and do this at least 2 or 3 times a day and soon it will cure you. Also take this sage and cook it with wine. Then put this herb, warm, on the wrists and it will help you greatly.

Another to restore one who becomes paralyzed. Take bile from a bull and dry it and make very fine powder and give the sick one some of it to drink every morning and he should eat it in all ways and in a few days he will recover.

Another for tremor of the limbs. Take juice of wormwood blended with ordinary oil and rub it, warm, repeatedly on those limbs that tremble. It will be of great benefit and, by continuing this, you will cure.

Another remedy for paralysis. Take sage, betony, rue, cinquefoil, roots of fennel, parsley and celery, each the same amount, and triturate everything and incorporate it with very good wine and boil until it reduces ¼. Then strain it and press well and give the one who trembles 4 ounces per dose to drink early in the morning, warm in the form of a syrup, for 30 days. With the aid of God soon he will be improving and will not tremble any more, if the sickness is recent.

Scrofula, that is swollen glands, and bad growths arising in several ways. Viz:

Take 5 pounds of laurel oil, 3 ounces each of mastic, frankincense, gum arabic, turpentine and egg white and mix them together and distill in a glass flask. Then put into the distillate, 6 pounds of strong ashes of oak and incorporate well and redistill it. Save the water that comes out in a bottle as something valuable which is very good for scrofulous lumps or swollen glands. These often appear near the Adam's apple, that is around the throat and also on the body. With this water you should bathe them repeatedly. Then take some lentils and cook them very well with vinegar and put this warm on the sick places in the form of a poultice and do it several times. With God's grace soon it will cure the scrofula, and rapidly.

Another for scrofulas. Take ground salt and vinegar and ox dung and urine of a child 6 years old and mix everything together in the form of a poultice and put it warm with a stupe on the scrofulas in the evening when you go to sleep and it will help you considerably.

Another for scrofulas that are not broken open. Take the root of wild squash, that is bryony, and distill water from it in the glass still. Give 3 ounces to the patient to drink every morning as a syrup. Continue for one month and you will help him greatly.

Another for scrofulas. Take the herb pellitory that grows on the wall. Pound it between 2 stones and make juice, and wet pieces of finely-woven linen in this and put them on the sore spots. Continue the medication for a month, 2 or 3 times a day, and you will cure.

Another to make the scrofulas break open. Take the root of marsh mallow, that is altea , and make powder and take smooth pork fat and mix them together. Then rub the bad area of the scrofulas with it, warm, and shortly it will be broken open.

Another for those that are not open. Take 9 live lizards and put them alive in a pot and put in oil of dill, salt and old ordinary oil. Boil this until 1/3 remains and with this oil, warm, repeatedly rub the swellings of scrofula and they will give you no more trouble.

Another for those scrofulas that are open. Take a large pot full of white wine, the oldest that can be found is the best, and put in 1 handful each of sage and rosemary, 4 cyclamen roots and 1 ½ ounces of saccharine alum and 1 handful each of dill and salt, and boil everything together until it reduces one third. Then strain it and with this wine, very warm, bathe the sores repeatedly and dry them. Then grind the herbs finely. Take lard or fat that should be old, the amount as much as the herbs in weight or volume, and grind everything together finely. After the sores have been washed, put on this plaster and do this 2 times a day and, through God's grace, you will soon cure.

Water that removes developing scrofulas and warts.

Take 5 pounds of old laurel oil and 3 ounces each of white frankincense, mastic, gum arabic and turpentine and compound everything and distill it into a glass bowl and put in this water 5 pounds of ashes of the strongest soft cheese that can be found and return it to the still and save the water that comes out. When you want to remove the scrophulas, carefully bathe them repeatedly and as they dry up do this again to the swelling. To remove warts, make them bleed a little with a needle. Then wet them with this water and it wears away the roots of the wart and it will dry up and soon it will go away.

Another to remove scrofulas that are closed over. Take 4 ounces each of the urine of a young child and strong vinegar and one spoonful of salt and with this wet pieces of linen and put them on the glands in the evening when you go to bed. By continuing it, they are consumed little by little and you will be cured. Do not eat pork.

Wonderful unguent for scrofulas or swollen glands.

Take 1 ounce each of clean wax, rose oil and bear fat, 1 ½ ounces each of turpentine and mutton fat, 2 dinari of Greek pitch, 6 dinari of male incense. Then add a little juice of hemlock and mix all these things together in a clean flask. First cut the fats minutely and the other things should be in fine powder and well mixed and cook these on a slow fire. Then remove it from the fire and save it for your needs. Then in the morning and the evening rub it on. By continuing this, you will be cured quickly. Take care of yourself.

Another unguent for scrofulas. Take juice of celery and raw honey, each the same amount, and one egg yolk and a little wheat flour and put everything in a pot, well covered, in the sun for 10 to 15 days and it will be made. Keep it for your needs and rub it on in the evening and morning. Soon you will be cured.

Another perfect electuary against scrofula. Take some green lizards and cut off the heads and tails. Then put them in very strong vinegar for 3 days. Then dry them in the oven and make very fine powder. Take 2 pounds of well purified honey and incorporate this with the powder and make an electuary of it. Take one spoonful in the morning early, diluted with very good wine, and wait for the space of one hour. Then take another dose and do this again one more time, that will be 3 times in the morning. Continue this at least for 8 days and, little by little, the scrofulas will be drying up and, through God's grace, soon you will be cured. Keep a good life and do not eat harmful things.

Another to cure scrofulas rapidly using a root. Take the root of lesser serpentaria, that is the herb wake robin, wash it well and make it into 3 or 4 pieces, cut with wood not with iron. In the evening when you go to sleep, put one of these pieces in your mouth and with that in your mouth, go to sleep if you can. If not, roll it in a little starch and swallow it like a pine seed. Take it one evening, yes, and the next, no. Do not take too much by mouth because it is hot in the third degree, so it makes your tongue sore. By swallowing it, this root breaks up, erodes, and consumes all the excess humor and if you should have some scrofulas on your back, that skin will all be drying up little by little. When you feel much better, do not take more of it. Know that the roots should be fresh. If they are dry they do not have as much potency. When you have removed the swellings, take the root 3 or 4 times and put the rest underground in a place where they remain fresh and take them from time to time. Be careful what you eat. Do not eat pork meat, nor sour fruit. Do not drink fresh water. Do not use women. Keep your body warm and eat light things. Do not wrap youself up in your problem. Be certain it is true that soon you will be cured. This has been proved many times by persons worthy of trust.

Another to cure scrofulas or swollen glands in 40 days. Take a cyclamen root and cut it into 40 slices and dry them in the shade and every morning make a powder of one and give it to the patient to drink with wine or warm broth as a syrup early in the morning. In 40 days you will have made a cure. This has been tested by a well-known anatomist of Pisa.

A major and very useful unguent.

