Take 1 handful each of the herbs burnet, betony, verbena, honeysuckle and St. John's wort. Cut them well and crush them minutely in a mortar. Then put them to soften in good white wine for 3 whole days. Then boil it until it is reduced in half. Put it in a canvas cloth and strain it and press out the juice very well. Then put in the gums that are written below, viz: 6 ounces of pine tar, 1 lb. of turpentine, 1 ½ ounces each of gum arabic and gum ammoniac, 2 ounces of opopanax gum, and 1 ounce each of white wax, sarcocol gum, juniper gum and bdellium. Then add 3 ounces each of juice of plantain and of absinthe. Then incorporate everything together and boil it on a slow fire, stirring continuously. Regarding the gums, it may not be known when this is ready. When you want to know if it is cooked, take a little of it on a spatula and let it cool and if the edge stays firm so it can be spread like diaquilon , then it is ready. Note that you want it to be more hard than soft. Then take some very fine soot and incorporate it in so that it becomes very dark and put in more at your discretion until it is enough. When it is partly cold, put in these other things written here, viz: 1 ½ ounces each of mastic, male incense, myrrh and ivy gum. Then add ½ ounce of mother's milk, wetting the hands to mix it very well. Then make a medicated paste of it, that is in little plasters. It lasts a long time.

A major poultice.

Take 1 ounce each of flowers of camomile, absinthe and rose, betony, mountain mint, cumin and barley flour and make a plaster with white wine. At the end add rose oil and it will be made.

Another for headache. Take white wine and in this wine boil some absinthe and some betony. Then with this wine, wash your head and soon you will be cured.

Another for headache. Take 1 handful each of flowers of laurel and rue and dry stalks of garlic and boil them in white wine and water, 1 jug of each. Then wash your head with this well and soon you will be cured of the headache.

Best remedy for headache.

Take 1 handful each of good marjoram and rosemary and make fine powder of them. In the morning take half a glass of good white wine and put therein a tablespoon of this powder, heat it and drink this early in the morning and soon you will be cured. This is also powerful to save the teeth so they will not decay and it will give you a good breath. It is the thing used by gentlemen.

Another for headache. Take some rue and peach leaves and fry them with oil in a pan until they are well cooked. Then remove them and mash them very well and with this warm oil rub the temples and soon you will be cured.

Another for headache. Take the herb savin and cut it finely and compound it with rose oil and strong vinegar and cook it and do as above, rubbing the temples, and you will be cured.

Another for the aforesaid headache. Take some hemp in green leaf and grind it finely. Then compound it on the fire with strong vinegar. Put it warm on the forehead, and soon you will be cured.

Also it is good for one who may have a migraine headache. It is useful for one who is not able to sleep. Grind it with vinegar and put it on the forehead and it will cure. Also make a plaster with some poison hemlock and put it on the forehead. You will see a good effect and it will remove your headache.

Plaster to put on the head. Take white resin, cloves, ginger and nutmeg, each in the same amount, and make them into powder, compound them on the fire and put this on a piece of leather and on the top of the head.

For a cut on the head or a wound.

Take some of the herb scabiosa and betony and make fine powder. Then put it on the cut or on the head or on wounds and soon they will be cured. If you wish to prove this, take a chicken or other animal and cut open the head. Then put some of this powder on it and you will shortly see a wonderful result that it will be cured neatly and well.

Another for the same as long as it is not fatal. Put these 3 words on something edible and eat it and soon you will be cured: '+ Gibel + Goth + Gabel.' Then take the herb shepherd's purse and put it on the chest so it touches the flesh or grasp it in the hand and, holding it, soon through God's grace, you will be cured. ' Gimel, Goe, Gabor. '

Another for a hurt from a blow. Take rosewater and dove dung and incense, each the same amount, and powder everything and incorporate them together with water and egg white and compound it. Then put it on a stupe and put it on the forehead so it extends from one side to the other and soon you will be cured.

Another for a hurt from a blow. Take the herb scabiosa and extract juice. Then strain it and take half a glass of it and add 3 ounces of strong vinegar and one ounce of rose oil and one fresh egg and mix everything together. Wet a fine cloth in it and put it across the forehead and as it becomes dry, put on another and do this until the pain is gone and in this way you will cure.

Another for a hurt from a blow. Take a fresh egg and cook it enough in a pan like a pancake with a little rose oil with a little fresh marjoram mixed into the egg. Do not make it too hard. Then put it on the head, that is on the brain, as warm as you can stand, and cut the hair in that part so it is not plastered. Do this 3 or 4 times and you will be cured rapidly. Live with sobriety and stay warm.

For one who may be out of his head, that is who may lose his balance.

Take rape seed and good marjoram and grind them finely and have the one who is dizzy drink them several times. By continuing to drink this, one will soon be cured and steady.

To cure headache rapidly. Take juice of marjoram and draw it up in the nose and at once it lifts your pain.

Plaster that is put on the head for pain from a blow and for edema.

Take mastic, frankincense, sarcocol, opopanax, galbanum and ivy gum, each ½ ounce, 1 ounce of tar, 1 ½ ounces each of colophony and yellow wax and 3 drams of spurge. First take the gums and cover them with vinegar and leave them to soften for 24 hours. Then grind them in a mortar and make a plaster, well formed. Put it on the head and let it stay thus and it will help you greatly.

Remedies of several kinds for epilepsy.

Take opopanax, dragon's blood gum, musk, antimony, each the same amount, pulverize all finely and incorporate them well and use this powder in food in all ways, in wine, in broth, in soups, and use as much as half a tablespoon of it every day for 2 months.

Another powder for epilepsy. Take a pair of live pigeons and put them in a clean pot, not vitreous, with its cover and put dough around the cover so that no gas can escape. Then put it in the oven long enough so it becomes in a form that you can make into fine powder. Then take some bone from the head of a dead man, bake it and grind it into fine powder and incorporate it with the above, or file it and then grind it but it will take more effort. Give ½ tablespoon each time to the patient and give it with 3 ounces of holy water in the morning in the form of a warm syrup for 2 months and you will see recovery, through God's grace.

Beverage for epilepsy.

Take marjoram, peony seeds, goat's rue, musk, opopanax and antimony, 4 ounces of each pulverized finely, and ½ dish of earthworms washed with wine, dried and made into powder. Incorporate everything well and give one tablespoon of it every third evening to the patient with juice of marjoram in the evening when he goes to sleep. If this is done at the beginning of the illness, he will be freed quickly. The juice of Roman mint, given with ½ glass of wine for 3 days, helps greatly.

Another for epilepsy. Take musk, peony, Roman pellitory, black dittany and valerian, each the same amount, and make a powder of them and give it to the patient to eat several times in His Name and it will cure. It is tested.

Electuary for epilepsy.

Take nutmeg, cinnamon, ginger, cloves, long pepper and white pepper, marjoram and betony, each ½ ounce, 1 ounce of peony root, 1 ½ ounces each of fine sugar and fine theriac. Make powder of everything and put all together and make an electuary as usual. Compound it with clean honey sufficient to incorporate and give this electuary in the amount of a hazel nut for six days in a row, thereafter freely, and especially at the time when the patient starts to feel dizzy as epilepsy or other cerebral changes come on, he should begin the electuary before and after and he will be cured quickly.

