Another for epilepsy. Take the herb dragon root or its seed or root or some of its berries and some of its juice and give it to the patient to drink several times and he will see the effect. Then take some peony root, gathered during the half-moon in autumn and also some of its seed gathered in the waning moon and make very fine powder of all. Take some of the powder you have made above from the head of a man or a woman and also take some fur of a white dog and cut it very finely and blend everything together. Give the sick one a spoonful of this powder in broth or in soup or in any way as long as he takes it and, with the aid of God, shortly you will see him cured. See that he does not know the composition of the powder so that he more willingly will take it and, through the faith that he has to be cured, he will be cured without fail.

Also when you are at mass, always say the Pater Noster when the priest says it. When the patient falls, say the Pater Noster in his ear and at once he will get up and be able to walk.

Again when one falls to the earth, say these words in his ear, viz: 'The spirit is indeed strong, however the flesh is weak,' and at once he will get up and walk, for these facts are certain and tested many times by men of faith.

Another for epilepsy. Take one branch of the herb that is mistletoe that grows on the pear tree or on the tree that has apples and is large and make the branch square and 4 fingers or less in length. Write on the first face '+ Jesus Maria +' , on the second 'Gaspar +', on the third 'Balthasar +' and on the fourth 'Melchior +' and put it on the altar and say over it these 4 masses, first of the Holy Spirit, of the Epiphany, of Saint Bertinus and of the 5 wounds of Jesus Christ, and fasten it around the neck of the patient with a new ribbon with 5 Pater Noster, kneeling, and 3 other Pater Noster for the 3 Nails and when you attach it you say 'I touch the bone of the neck' and leave this on.

Another, an electuary for epilepsy. Take 1 pound of red sugar and 6 ounces of flowers of ivy gathered during the half moon, and grind them in a way that makes the sugar rosy and put it in the sun in a clean, covered vessel for one month. Then give the patient one spoonful in the morning and he will not fall as much.

Epilepsy.

Another to cure epilepsy. Take one dram of deer horn made into fine powder and give it to drink every morning with 2 ounces of warm good white wine with ½ dram of raw anise in fine powder. Give it in the form of a syrup. This beverage will be of great help to the epileptic.

