Another plaster for the falling sickness. Take 1 ounce each of myrrh, nutmeg, white incense and mother's milk from a woman nursing a boy if the sick person is male and, if female, from a woman nursing a girl. Mix the herbs together, make them into fine powder, make a well-formed plaster and spread it on chamois leather. Then shave the top of the head up to the forehead and put on this plaster, very warm, and let it stay on at least for 6 months and, with the aid of God, he will be healed. But do keep shaving the head every 8 to 10 days so that it holds the plaster and you will see a good result, with God's grace.

Another, a different, very good remedy for the falling sickness. Take lees of good wine and first shave the top of the head and with these lees rub the commissure of the head, rubbing until the area becomes blistered. Then take a sharp nail that has a good silver coating and heat it very well. Then press it on this blister and it will break open and all of the sickness will be alleviated and soon, with the aid of God, it will be cured, little by little. These secrets are very useful for falling sickness.

When a headache in women lasts a long time.

Rub the forehead and the temples with marsh mallow and soon she will be cured.

Another. Cook dill seed in oil. Rub the forehead and temples with this and it lifts the pain.

Another. Creeping thyme cut and cooked with vinegar in rose oil, confected and put on the head, lifts the pain.

Another. Juice of ground ivy, oil and vinegar mixed together and put on the top of the head with wool or cotton.

Another. Juice of celandine, taken up in the nostrils, clears the head.

Another. Take hepatic aloe and grind it finely and mix it with olive oil. Then spread it on a linen cloth and put it on the forehead and the temples in the evening.

Another. Wash the head repeatedly with lye made of cinders and ashes of stalks and roots of large nettle and white grape and this will be found wonderfully efficacious against headache, especially migraine.

Another against migraine. Take laurel oil and rub it on the temples 2 or 3 times. It is a wonderfully powerful ointment and takes away the pain.

Another for headache. Take rue and grind it with olive oil and then sprinkle into it rabbit bile so that it is mixed smoothly, and the same amount of pork fat, and rub the forehead and the temples and all the pain will be alleviated.

Another. Grind pennyroyal and its flowers together and give it to drink with wine or warm water and you should fast right up to the nones and it will clear up the head.

Another. Take juice of rue and rub it on the forehead and over it put cotton.

Another. Pennyroyal may be cooked with vinegar and put in your nostrils so you feel the odor, and from the pennyroyal make a wreath for your head.

Another. Take a fresh hen's egg and cook it hard in the ashes. Then divide it in half and bind it warm on the forehead when you go to sleep. Soon you will be freed. Do this when your head hurts.

Another for ache of the forehead. Take stonecrop and cumin cut together with egg white and bind it on the forehead.

