Arabian pills for every headache. Take 4 ounces of aloe, 5 each of bryony and cherry plum, 1 ounce each of citrus, Indian plum, Kabul cherry plum, mastic, scammony, wild spikenard and roses, 1 dram of crocus, 3 drams of musk and mix together with the juice of culrage or absinthe.

Another pill for headache. Take 4 drams of fine mastic, 10 drams of hepatic aloe, 3 drams of fine white mushrooms and make pills with juice of artemisia. They can even be taken with syrup of French lavender after a light meal without stopping their action.

Against the swelling of the eyes in a headache. Take rose water and rose oil and ground salt and mix with a stick and put in a drop of vinegar. Then wet cloths in it and put them on the forehead and soon the pain will lift and make you sleep.

Tested against headache. Take juice of plantain and a little rose water, a little vinegar, a little mother's milk and the white of one fresh egg, each the same amount, only more or less milk at your discretion. Then wet some cloths in this mixture and put them on the forehead so they reach from one ear to the other and the pain will go away.

When a man has fallen from a high place and has been bruised or hurt inside.

Take 10 drams of senna with waters of endive, violet, plantain and bugloss, each the same amount, and put in them ½ dram of mummy and a scruple of madder and give it in the morning on an empty stomach and one should not eat for 3 hours. If it should be a little child, give only ½ dram of senna and add only 4 grains of mummy and 4 grains of madder and it should be taken in the morning, as above. It clears and refreshes and makes the blood return to its place. Then this is followed with other restorers: unguents, poultices, cupping glass or lancet with bleeding either from the common vein or from the liver to draw 6 ounces of blood.

For the same. Take 6 drams of senna, freshly extracted, 1 dram of pulverized rhubarb, 4 grains of mummy, 4 ounces each of water decoctions of spleenwort, of white maiden hair fern, of black maiden hair fern, of liverwort, of barley, of maiden hair fern, of mint and of nutmeg, with which the senna, rhubarb and mummy are incorporated. Give it to the sick one to drink one hour before daybreak in the form of a syrup.

Plaster for the same. Take ox dung equal to a thousand herbs, horse dung and ass dung and boil them in good vernaza wine until they become in the form of a plaster and put this on the sore place and soon you will cure.

Enema as above. Take urine of a virgin child and mild lye and the same amount of thick broth, so that each equals two good bowls, and put in 3 ounces of honey and 2 ounces of rose oil and a very little salt. Use it one hour before daybreak or at the 20th hour.

Plaster to put in the center of the head to dry up all the humidity and when things may have fallen on the stomach.

Take 1 dram each of male incense, musk, mastic, coral, cinnamon, nutmeg, cloves, dragon's blood gum, spruce gum, myrtle, and dry roses and make this into very fine powder and incorporate it on a slow fire and when you remove it from the fire, add a little mother's milk and mix it well until it is cold and it will be made. Then spread some on chamois leather the size of a wafer and pierce it with the tip of a knife so that it may have an opening and cut the hair in the center of the head and attach it warm. Do not remove it so it may detach by itself. If the person is not sufficiently cured, put another on again. By Master Apothecary Antonio Bragti.

To cure the falling sickness, that is one who falls from that bad sickness, with the aid of God.

Take the herb called burdock, and some rue. For 15 to 20 days in a row the patient shoud eat this herb at meals or before meals with bread or in fritters or in whatever way he wants to eat it. Begin to do this 15 to 20 days before the full moon and watch carefully, if you can, to learn the day, the hour and the place where the moon rises. On that day, hour and location of the moon, draw blood from the patient from the vein under the tongue. Do this 3 times in a row, that is for 3 moons. This is verified and tested and greatly praised by experienced doctors who say that at that point the moon stirs all our blood and doing this bleeding under the tongue may diminish the bad blood which ascends to the brain, and so free the body of this kind of sickness, little by little. Warn the patient not to cohabit with women because that has very adverse effects. That is said to me by one who tested it.

