Prayer for falling sickness. This sign of the Holy Cross is powerful against the falling sickness, viz: first draw this cross with these letters as you see on the page and when you want to put this around the neck say, and have said, 3 Pater Noster and 3 Ave Maria to honor God and the Holy Trinity and the 3 magi and carry it always around the neck and with the aid of God soon you will be cured. It is tested. Also add to this note, 3 peony roots and 3 peony seeds and 3 castor bean seeds and put them together and say over them the Mass of Saint Cornelius and write the prayer for Saints Cosmas and Damian and for the Angel Raphael. Carry this near you with devotion and you will be cured.

Most marvelous water of swallows, more than can be believed. It is made in this way for falling sickness.

Take young swallows and dry them and pulverize finely the quantity that you will want. Then take the same amount of musk and mix together. Then pour in enough good vinegar and distill it in glass and keep this water. Its virtues are written below, viz:

First, taken on an empty stomach it is the right medicine against the falling sickness, chosen because it is effective even if the person may have been suffering for 40 years.

Another. Taken on an empty stomach it cures delirium in nine days.

Another. Above all other medicines, it makes the head good, cleans the stomach, soothes and comforts the nerves of the chest, removes nerve paralysis, increases natural acts and warms anyone with chills.

Another. Taken on an empty stomach with hyssop it cures the dropsy that is caused by cold and drives away quartan fever.

Another. Taken with hyssop it cures headache and makes persons sleep, eat with appetite and digest food. It helps if a pregnant woman takes it because she may avoid losing a baby in the womb.

Another. The juice of rue pushed up the nose when there has been an accident, heals it at once. Insufflate the juice in the nose.

The membrane within which kittens develop, when pulverized and given in a potion to the patient, is useful for the tissue of the womb.

