Another. Also it is useful to have one of those nails that hold the candles when the church is consecrated. Carry it with you. Then, when the patient falls, drive this nail in where he hits his head and he will get up cured.

Be advised that when you gather the root of the peony, it must be picked in the autumn in the waning of the moon and its seed is gathered when the moon is full so that when it is wanted for the falling sickness, you will use this water with certainty for this sickness. It has been tested many times by Monsignor Bero.

For the falling sickness. Take a nutshell full of brandy and put it in a glass of wine and take a little theriac and give it to the patient to drink for 15 days and soon he will be cured. It has been tested.

For the falling sickness.

Take 6 ounces of a human skull, male for a man, female for a woman, and take care that the skull did not stay for a long time underground, nor from a person who was sick for a long time, nor was wasting from consumption. Take 3 ounces of the finest white sugar, one nutmeg, mace, cinnamon, oriental spice, cloves, white incense, peony seeds (male for a man, female for a woman), each in the weight of a nutmeg. All should be pulverized very finely and should be sifted through a hair sieve. One spoonful of this powder should be taken by the sick person early in the morning and in the evening in chicken broth. He should hold the peony seed under the tongue before he is purged. Meanwhile he should abstain from coitus, from eating pork, from all goat meat, from leeks, garlic, onion and other pungent herbs and from celery and parsley. Through the grace of God, he will be cured.

For the problem of baldness on the head.

Take parched maiden hair fern and make fine powder of it and mix it with vinegar and oil and make it in the form of an unguent. This is good for alopecia which is a condition in which all the hair falls out with sores. This is the treatment to cure it. Take oil of myrtle, wine and lye and parched goat hoof made into fine powder. Wash your head repeatedly with this and it stops the hair from falling out. This ash with lye is valuable in overheating of the head. It uses up, dissipates and removes the wet sores.

For pain in the head, stomach or chest.

Say: '+ The Angel Michael sustains me +. The Angel Gabriel restores me +. The Angel Raphael frees me + from all suffering.'

For flesh cracked or bruised or a fall from a height without breaking the flesh.

Say over the hurt place this devout prayer several times. Viz: “Saint Peter was seated on the sea shore and Jesus came along and Jesus said, 'What are you doing, Peter, that you are not resting?' Saint Peter said, 'Lord, I cannot because I have a cut in the flesh on my back.' Jesus said to Saint Peter, 'Go to the house and take linen fiber and fat from a young pig. Rub with the fat and the flesh joins. Rub and the flesh mends. Rub and it is cooled and the flesh binds.' In the name of the Father and Son and Holy Spirit, Amen.”

Flax is the fiber that should be used to tie. Take 3 threads and lard fat, bind around it with these 3 threads and with it, cold, rub the hurt place that is bruised and sore if the flesh and bone are not broken, but only bruised or cut. Rub in the way described above and soon you will be cured. It has been tested many times and it is effective without doing anything else.

To cure ringworm on the head in several ways and to remove hair without pain.

Take 3 lbs. of male pig lard, as old as you can find, and put it to soak in very strong vinegar, well covered, for 2 whole days. Then remove it and wrap it well in 4 to 6 cabbage leaves or good parchment. Then dip the package in water and remove it quickly. Clear off the hearth and put it in the center. Cover it with embers and warm ashes so it is protected from the fire and let it stay for 2 hours, more or less, according to how hot the fire is. Watch that it does not burn or it will be consumed. Then remove it, unwrap the coverings and clean off the ashes as best you can. Put it between two chopping boards or two little planks and press it as hard as you can and also put it under the press to extract the last juice, as much as you can. Put in 3 quatrini of verdigris, cut very finely, and incorporate it well. Then strain it, still warm, through a fine cloth and save it in a little pot, continuing to stir it until it becomes cold so the verdigris does not go to the bottom but stays distributed. When you want to use it on the head that has ringworm, do it in this way: rub the head with ringworm every other evening, gently rubbing well into the scalp and put on a leaf of cabbage or parchment and a nightcap over that. Wash the head 2 or 3 times a week with mild lye boiled with roots of dock. When you wash it put in a fistful of very fine bran and then dry it very well. When you wash it, pull the hair lightly, so each time those which are most affected will improve some, so little by little you will remove it. When the hair is dry, rub the skin well with the grease so it penetrates and in this way the roots of the hair are aged and removed because the root is what holds the sickness. Then when the head is clean it will regrow all the hair more beautiful than it was at first and in greater amount, and you will be cured. Then rub the head with this oil: take 2 or 3 live lizards, that is Ligurian green lizards, and drown them in a pot full of ordinary oil and boil it in front of the fire until they are well broken apart. Remove it from the fire and leave it in the sun for 15 to 20 days. Rub it in carefully every evening where you want the hair to come and it will grow again thick and long. This recipe has been very, very effective many, many times. Tested by me Master Apothecary Andrea.

Another to remove ringworm, no less good than the one above. Take pork lard, as above, and cut it into thin slices. Thread on a skewer one slice of lard and one leaf of climbing ivy. Then put it on the fire and turn it very slowly. Put a dish underneath that has some very strong vinegar in it and let it cook that way. When the pork is nearly cooked, remove it from the fire and put the tip of the skewer in the dish and hold it upright and move the fire away from the bottom and drain all the fat into the vinegar. Then put the vinegar and the fat together in a little pot and save it for your needs. When you rub the head of a ringworm sufferer, rub it in the evening and rub it well on the scalp and cover it as described above. Then make some lye to wash the head 2 or 3 times a week. When you have made your lye and strained it, boil it again with a little rock alum, grape leaves, savin and roots or leaves of danewort, one handful each, and a jug of good white wine. Then wash the head with this lye. When it is dry rub it with the grease. In the morning rub the head with warm oil of juniper and, through the grace of God, soon you will cure the greasy ringworm.

Pills to cure ringworm.

Take 1 dram each of agaric, senna, pulp of colocynth and mastic and 3 drams of aloe and make pills with juice of leeks. The dose should be three pills. This method will cure the wet ringworm and dry it. Using these pills helps to cure the problem of ringworm rapidly.

Ointment to remove ringworm rapidly.

Take male pork fat in the amount you want and one third part of strong vinegar and set it on the fire and put therein ½ ounce of salt and make this boil very slowly until all the vinegar is gone. Then remove it from the fire and put in these powders, viz: verdigris, sulfur, dried rock alum, soot and dove dung, the amount of these things at your discretion, and all should be pulverized very finely. Then incorporate everything together, warm, and it will be made. Save it for your needs. Make mild lye to wash the head and boil in it some root of dock and wash with this on alternate days and rub the head in the morning and evening, pulling well along each hair. In 10 days it will be nearly cured, through God's grace.

Another against ringworm. Take celandine roots and grate them. Then boil them in 6 ounces of rose oil and as it begins to boil, put in 6 ounces of finely minced yellow litharge and a very little of the precipitate, that is, 1 dram as it is prepared. Remove it from the fire and continue to stir it until it is cold and it will be made. Then rub the head that has ringworm and put mixed flour of fava beans and of lupins on it like a spice powder. Rub it carefully in the morning and evening for 3 days, as if washing the head, pulling it through the hair. Then continue to rub once a day for 10 to 15 days and after that it will be cured and the hair will grow very slowly more beautiful than before. This is true.

Another to cure ringworm. Take equal amounts of sage, rosemary, spikenard, camomile and celandine, cut in little pieces, and boil them in white wine and a glass of vinegar until this reduces a third and all the herbs have given up their virtues into the wine. Then strain it and wash the head with this filtered liquid while it is very warm so it cleans well. When the hair is dry take a bit of dried salt beef and make it into fine powder. Put it on the head with a leaf of cabbage on it and tie on a night cap. Do this once a day in this way and afterward you will see a good result and you will be cured.

Water for ringworm and for the legs.

Take 3 jugs of cistern water and a bowl of very clean barley and boil it for ½ hour. Then add a bundle of dry bark of pomegranate and 1 handful of dry roses and let it boil for ½ hour. Add 4 ounces of crushed rock alum and let it again boil a little. Remove it from the fire and strain it at once, pressing the bark well. While it is still warm put in 2 ounces of chopped white lead and incorporate it well. Then put in 2 scruples of powdered camphor and quickly stir so that it incorporates and does not dissipate in fumes, and it will be made. Save it for your needs. Then wet some pieces of linen in this decoction and put them on the head and also on the legs and continue this for several days and you will be cured. Take care of yourself.

For the crust that comes on the head of little children.

Take 1 handful each of mallow, sweet violets and fine flour and boil them with enough water and reduce it 1/3 and with this liquid wash the head very well. Then smear the head with this liniment: take butter washed in the decoction described above and an unguent of camphorated white lead and incorporate them using a lead mortar with a lead pestle for ½ hour. Then remove it and rub the head carefully with this and put on pieces of fine linen cloth and do this in the morning and evening and the crusst will be cured quickly by following this prescription.

Another. Take old lard, wrap it in a stupe wet in urine and heat it under the ashes and with this rub the head of the little child who has a crust.

Powder to make the memory good.

Take 1 dram each of caraway, anise, bishop's weed, celery, cumin, mountain mint, cardamon, Indian leaf, galingale, costmary, betony, fennel, marjoram, sweet basil, licorice, pennyroyal, pepper, lavender, parsley and hyssop and make everything into very fine powder, each one separately. Then incorporate them all well and use this powder in all your foods like a spice. But know that in the winter it is better than in the summer for the excess of phlegm. This powder was made by Emperor Fredrick. It is good for continual use by one who has lost his memory through some excessive humor. This powder is active against scotoma, dizziness, defective sight and hearing, and against apoplexy, gout and paralysis and mitigates pain from the kidney and lower parts.

Amulet for bad memory.

Take 5 ounces of cistus gum, 3 drams of amber, 2 drams each of cloves and nutmeg, 1 dram of storax and 2 scruples of musk and make fine powder of all these things. Then mix with tragathanth gum melted in rose water and make a ball with a hole through the center and let it dry in the shade. Put it on the back or around the neck with a cord of gold or of silver. Know that this comforts the brain, the nerves and the spirit and it will bring a good fragrance to all your thoughts.

Very good and complete electuary for the memory.

Take 2 drams each of flowers of rosemary, of borage and of bugloss and the heart of a swallow and take 1/2 dram each of fine cinnamon, nutmeg, mace, cloves and long pepper, 2 grains of musk and 1 ounce each of fine sugar, rose sugar and violet sugar. All these things should be finely pulverized and made into a mixture with one ounce of rose syrup. On an empty stomach take the amount of a hazel nut every morning. Take this electuary for the period of one month and it will give you a wonderful memory that will be maintained. Keep yourself from bad odors and use it in the wintertime to help you keep warm. By using it you will keep your memory perfect.

Another to maintain the memory. Take a piece of the root of cyclamen or sow bread and chew it each day. This is the best thing for the memory.

For one whose brain is disordered.

Take 2 handfuls of the leaves of cultivated celery and cook them in water. Make a poultice of this herb and put it as warm as one can stand on the head which should be shaved first. Put it on all over the head thickly and do it at least 2 or 3 times and it will help greatly. This is a tested method. In addition you should use this wine: take 1 ounce each of good wine and ginger and 2 ounces each of long pepper and galingale and 1/2 ounce each of cloves, cubeb and nutmeg. Everything should be made into fine powder. Put this powder, incorporated with a little of that wine, in a small linen sack and put it in a vessel with 7 lbs. of good wine and cover it well so it is not able to evaporate and boil it some. Then let it clear with the sack in it and use this wine to drink, but a little each time. This wine is also good in chills and for flatulence and you will be warmed and it will help you greatly.

Another for one whose brain is disordered. Take seeds of rue and grind them finely. Drink them with sharp, that is sour, wine and soon you will recover the health of the brain.

Pills for the head, after meals.

Take 2 drams of giera dough with mushrooms and 1 dram of plain dough and mix them together with water of fennel and make 9 pills. Then take 3 of them at a time and it will make you go very easily.

To make hair on the head, beard or hair on the skin regrow when it has fallen out through sickness.

Take raw honey and urine of a young child of 5 to 8 years, each the same amount, and put therein some bees, that is roasted bees, and make fine powder of it and incorporate it with ordinary oil and mix everything together. Then rub the bald place on the head or beard or skin and, by continuing it for a few days, the hair will grow shining and beautiful as before. This mixture should be made fresh, a little at a time, at least every 2 or 3 days because of the putrefaction that occurs from the urine. It will work for you very well.

Another to make hair and beard grow. Take as much linseed as you want and toast it in a frying pan and make fine powder and also some roasted bees and use as much of one powder as the other and incorporate it with oil of lizard, that is the green lizard, in the form of a soft unguent. Then rub the bald spot carefully in the morning and evening and soon the hair will grow on the head, beard or skin. Powder of roasted frogs works the same way. First rub with the oil described above and then put on the powder like a spice and hair will grow quickly and in large amounts. It has been tested.

Another to make the hair or beard grow long. When you make lye for washing your head, take ashes of grapevine and no other ashes and 1 handful each of the herb agrimony, climbing ivy and maidenhair fern and boil them all together until it reduces 1/3. Then filter the lye and save it and with this wash your head 2 times a week and soon you will see the wonderful result.

To make hair beautiful in several ways.

Take 5 lb. of white honey and distill it in a glass still with pebbles, that is large and well-washed sand, mixed with the honey and put this in a distilling flask just as it is, with a lively fire so that it distills oil. Then take this oil and when you have dried the head, rub the hair carefully. By continuing this, the hair will become beautiful, I say most beautiful.

Another to make beautiful hair. Take oil of poppy and ox gall, each the same amount, and a little white wine and incorporate them as a liquid unguent and when you have dried the head well, rub the hair with this carefully. Then stay in the sun and the hair will become most beautiful.

Another to make the hair beautiful. Take 1/2 dram of oriental saffron and the yolks of 8 cooked eggs ground in a mortar. Add the saffron in very fine powder and enough white honey to combine everything in the form of a liquid unguent. Then when you are in the sun, oil the hair and rub it well and when combing the hair first smear the comb with oil of bitter almonds. Continue this for a month, at least 2 or 3 times a week, and if you do it repeatedly your hair soon will become the color of gold and as fine as you would like it.

Another to make the hair beautiful. Take roots of endive and cook them with lye. Then when they are cooked, remove them and strain them. Then put this to boil again and put in cumin and crushed licorice, the amounts at your discretion, and boil it a while. Then strain it and with this wash your head 2 times a week and when it is dry sprinkle it with yellow sulfur, wrapping up the hair in a cover so you will not smell the odor. By doing this several times the hair will become the color of gold, pure and shining in a way that will please you. This secret is used by the ladies of Genoa and it is seen there.

To whiten hair in the shade, without sun, so that it will be as white and shining as silver.

Take 4 ounces of the root of greater centaury, 3 ounces each of gum arabic, tragacanth and rock alum, 2 ounces of white Damascene soap, 1 lb. of white precipitate of alum and 25 lb. of running water from the river. Take the root of the centaury and the same amount of its leaves and cut it very finely and boil everything together until it is reduced 1/3. Then let it stand in the sun for 15 days to become clear. Strain it and save it for your needs. To make the hair blond, rub it on your hair in the morning and wrap your hair in a kerchief and at noon wash the head with ordinary lye in which was boiled 1 handful of pellitory of the wall. Dry it where you wish, by the fire or in the sun, and continue in this way until finally you see your hair white and blond. Also at the same time it will take on a most beautiful shine that lasts for a long time. Know that this blond color is used a great deal in and around Venice and happy is the lady who knows such a secret.

To make the white hair of the head, beard or hair on the skin become dark brown.

Take ordinary lye and wash the head and when it is completely dry, rub the hair, beard or hair on the skin with well-warmed oil of tartar with a sponge. Do this at least 2 or 3 times a day and in 3 or 4 days the hair will have changed color to brown and the color will last several days. This secret was used to please the lover of a spruced-up Venetian lady who was 60 years old and she used only this oil and her hair was very shining. If this secret does not seem to have produced the right color for hair or beard, in the last combing with a comb of lead, rub with oil of benzoin gum which will give it a sweet odor. This secret is to be held dear. It has been tested by me, Master Apothecary Andrea, many times.

Another to make the hair or beard white. Take 1 and ½ handfuls each of flowers of mullein, French lavender, celandine and ashes of white grape vine and make lye and put 2 lb. of white soap cut finely into 8 lb. of lye and put it in a glass vessel in the sun for 20 days and each day stir it up with a stick so all is suspended. Then wet the hair with this many times with a sponge while standing in the sun. The hair will become most beautiful and lustrous by following this method of the great Venetian ladies. This is a secret that many ladies know.

Another to make the hair become long, down to the ground. Take some maiden hair fern and dry it in the shade and make fine powder of it and put it in myrtle oil and when the hair is dry, rub the hair and the scalp with it. Do this several times and it will become long. It has been tested.

To make the hair black when it is white.

