Take 1 ounce each of liquid storax, storax in canes, benzoin gum and sedge, ½ ounce each of cloves and orris root, and 1 lb. of oil of sweet almonds. Then take the benzoin gum, cloves, orris root and sedge and make them into fine powder and incorporate with the other things and distill them in a glass still on a slow fire and collect the liquor that arises and save it in a glass vessel. In the evening when you go to sleep, rub your hair or beard very well and wrap it in a linen cloth until morning. Then rub it with another dry cloth. Two times a week wash your head and when it is dry, rub it carefully. Continue this for several days and you will see it become dark, very dark, and every 2 months or more you can rub it to maintain it in that color and it will have a very good odor. Do it and this will succeed well for you.

To make gray hair dark.

Take equal amounts of soft dark soap and quicklime and yellow litharge and incorporate them in the form of an unguent and with this rub the gray hair several times and it will become dark. Continue this rubbing according to how you see the need as it turns from being white to dark.

Another for the aforesaid and also good. Take the juice of beets mixed with ashes made of chicken feathers and boil them together a while. Rub yourself with this in the evening when you go to sleep.

Another to make gray hair red. Take the leaves and tips of the walnut tree when they are tender and pomegranate rind and distill water from them in a glass still. With this wet only your hair and do not touch the skin and continue for 15 days or more. This color will last more than a month and it will make the hair a beautiful red-brown color, clear and beautiful.

Another to make the hair dark. Take earthworms and leaves of black figs, the amounts at your discretion, and parch them and make fine powder and incorporate it with oil of sweet almonds. Then rub the gray hair several times and it will become as dark and beautiful as you wish.

Another to make the hair on the head or skin dark. Take leaves of the black fig tree in the month of May. Dry them in the shade and make a fine powder of them. Then take oil of camomile and make an unguent, incorporating it on the fire. Rub the hair on the head, skin or beard several times and it will become dark. Adding a little milk from a bitch makes it very good. By combing with a comb made of lead, smeared with juice of sage and oil of benzoin gum, it will become a beatiful black. Tested.

Another method to make hair dark. Take 5 lb. of rain water, 2 ounces of yellow litharge made into powder, and 2 lb. of strong ashes that are carefully sieved. Put everything together and boil until it is reduced in half. Then let it cool and strain it carefully and with this decoction wet the hair, body hair or beard several times and the gray will become as it was in your youth. This has been tested.

To make your hair or beard grow.

Take some bees when they are inactive in the month of October and put them on an iron plate and put it on the burning embers to dry them. Parch them until you can make them into fine powder. Parch some linseed and make fine powder of it and take the same quantity that you want of each. Then have oil of Ligurian lizards, drowned alive in oil and boiled in a pot on the fire until they have fallen apart, and leave them in the sun for 15 to 20 days and this will be ready. Make lye with ashes of grape vine and boil in it a handful each of agrimony, climbing ivy and maiden hair fern. Then wash your head or beard where it is hairless with this lye at least 2 times a week and when it is dry rub the place of baldness with the oil. Then sprinkle on the powder like a spice. Do this anointing every evening and soon your hair, beard or body hair will regrow. What may have been falling out through sickness or baldness, as you begin to bathe it, will be falling out no more and soon will regrow. This has been tested and is approved. I give you the complete true information.

Another to make your hair and beard grow. Take hens' eggs, in the quantity that you wish, and cook them in water so they become hard and take out the yolk from the center. Put the yolks in an iron frying pan and fry until the oil comes out. Then put this warm in a little sack and put it under the press and extract all of the substance that can come out. Take 2 horns and the roasted dung of a goat and make them into fine powder and mix all together. Rub the place where hair is needed and soon it will grow on the head, beard or body.

To make body hair, beard or hair fall out where you wish.

