Take 4 ounces of fresh quicklime and 1 ½ ounces of orpiment, both pulverized very finely, and put them in very strong lye. I say the prime ingredient is the lye with which soap is made. Put these in a little pot on a slow fire so it boils very slowly until it develops a little body. If you would like to know when it is cooked, dip in a duck feather and remove it at once and if the feather is bare it is cooked. Remove it from the fire and it will be made. Save it for your needs. When you would like to remove body hair, beard or hair from the head, first rub the place with oil of sweet almonds and you will not feel any burning. Then as soon as you have greased the spot, put thereon this composition and let it stay until you do start to feel it. Wash it away with tepid water and rub the irritated place with another unguent made in this way, viz: take pork fat, cut finely, and melt it on the fire and put in rose oil and the white of an egg and incorporate everything well together. Rub with this where you feel it and soon the irritation will pass away. Then wash with rose water and plantain water and soon it disappears where you felt it and in that place neither hair nor beard ever grows. This has been tested by me.

Another to remove body hair or hair on the head. Take the root of the herb celandine and extract the juice and take a little cottonwool and wet it in this juice. Then wet the body hair or hair on the head that you want to remove and the hair will go away rapidly and if it returns, do it again one more time after which the hair will not return.

Another to remove body hair. Take 2 drams each of colophony and new wax, 1 dram each of gum ammoniac, mastic and gall of goat, and mix everything together well. Rub the place that you want and let it stay on for a little while. Then wash it away. By doing this several times the hair will go away rapidly by itself.

Another so that it will not return. Take the juice of climbing ivy and orpiment and ant eggs and strong vinegar at your discretion and incorporate them on a slow fire. Then rub it on, warm, and do this several times and the hair will go away and will not return. Also, only the ant eggs mingled with the milk of a bitch and juice of psyllium will do the same, so the hair will fall out soon. This is tested.

