Another to remove hair where you want. Take a flask of fresh urine and put therein a bowl of quicklime made into powder and boil it so it reduces in half. Then take 3 ounces of finely ground yellow orpiment and boil it for a bit. Put in one glass of juice of horse mint and ½ glass of strong vinegar and several ant eggs and let it boil a little, stirring it well and it will be made. Save it in a bottle and when you wish to use it, warm it up and rub where you want the hair removed and soon it will fall out and will not return for a long time. This has been tested.

Another to remove hair where you wish. Take white henbane, ant eggs, orpiment and ivy gum, each at your discretion, and mix this powder with very strong vinegar in the form of an unguent and put it where you want a few times and you will see a wonderful result.

Another if you do not wish hair to regrow. Take 2 ounces of ivy gum and 4 ounces of strong distilled vinegar and mix with a little Greek pitch, mastic, gum ammoniac and orpiment and incorporate this well. Rub it on and the hair will not grow back.

Water to remove body hair, warts, calluses and scabs.

Take 2 lb. each of strong ashes of Turkey oak, well-burnt, and litharge, 1 lb. of quicklime, 6 drams of copper sulfate, 8 jugs of the strong lye that is the primary ingredient from which soap is made, and 1 dram of ammonium chloride. The things that are to be ground should be ground separately and put them all in the lye and boil it very slowly until it reduces so there remains only one jug, and it will be finished. Save it in a large glass vessel, covered so that it does not evaporate and it stays good always. Then use it at your pleasure, always bathing lightly and thoroughly only that exact spot that you wish to free from hair.

Another, you can make powder of egg shells and bile from a bull and mix them. But first make the spot smooth with pumice and then it will go away. Another way, take some fresh horse manure and put it on for 10 days, changing it 3 times a day. Dilute nitric acid does the same, by leaving it on the wart, wetting it and doing this for 9 days, 2 or 3 times a day.

To make a spot of white hair dark like leopard spots.

Take 1 ounce of white litharge and 2 ounces of quicklime and 3 ladles of water and boil everything in a clean little pot on a slow fire until the material thickens. Then remove it from the fire and stir it well with a small stick and it will be made. Save it for your needs and when you want to use it, take a brush made of pig bristle and with this stain the hair where you wish to treat it and stain it well so it penetrates. Then let it dry in the sun and knock out the powder with a rod and you will see that spot of tan color. If you wish it darker, do it another time and it will be more or less dark according to your pleasure. This is a secret very well tested for things most beautiful to do, such as this spot of dark tan. This is the finest secret that I give you of this mixture for your hair or beard to make them dark tan.

Remedies in several ways for the stomach that does not retain food.

Take one or more quinces and cook them in very good white wine and then eat them before meals and it will do you much good. But first rub the top of the stomach with warm oil of mastic and take a slice of toasted bread and wet it in very strong vinegar and when it is warm put on a little powdered cloves and put this very warm on top of the stomach and bind it on and it will help greatly. Do it several times and it will cure.

Another for the stomach that does not retain food. Take as many quinces as you want, peel them and cook them in very strong vinegar which is the best way and grind them in a mortar and put in a little well-ground mustard and incorporate with the quinces. Then put this warm on a linen cloth and put thereon powdered mastic and powdered cloves, each the same amount. It should be as warm as one can bear and put it on top of the stomach and soon it will give comfort so that the upset stomach will retain food. This is tested.

Also you can do it in this way. Put some horse mint on a warm, clean brick and squirt good white wine on it. Then put thereon cumin and powdered mastic and put it on top of the stomach as warm as you can and you will feel improvement before it is all cold..

