Take 3 drams each of fine mint, wormwood, laurel leaves, nettle, myrtle, dry roses, cypress berries, cumin and sandalwood, and 1 dram each of powdered coral, cloves, cinnamon, ginger, saffron, mastic and nutmeg, and ½ dram each of myrrh, lavender and sedge. All these things should be finely pulverized. Then take a slice of bread and toast it and dip this warm into 4 ounces of very strong white rose vinegar. Add 1 ounce each of oil of roses, of mastic and of citron and enough barley flour to thicken all of the above things and make a good plaster and put it as warm as can be borne on top of the stomach. Keep it there very warm and, through God's grace, soon the stomach will be cured.

Unguent against vomiting and discharge from the stomach.

Take 1 ounce each of mastic, oil of roses and oil of mint, ½ dram of frankincense, and ½ scruple each of fine dry mint, red coral, acacia, clay from Lemnos, and red roses. They should be cut so that all are chopped up and with wax make an unguent on the fire following the usual method and rub it warm on the stomach one hour before the meal. It will help greatly to retain food.

Decoction against debility of the cold stomach.

Take 1 handful each of wormwood, fine dry mint and pennyroyal, ½ dram each of lavender and camels' hay, 1 dram each of powdered cloves, galingale, cinnamon, mace and nutmeg and make a decoction in 8 lb. of pure water so that it is reduced in half. Then wet a sponge in this warm decoction and apply the expressed sponge very warm to the stomach. Do this several times to take away much of the cold so the stomach will be well restored.

An ointment for the cold stomach. Take 1 ounce each of wormwood oil and lavender oil, 1 ounce of camomile oil and 4 grains by weight of powdered cloves, galingale, mace and nutmeg. Pulverize those that can be pulverized and with a little wax make an unguent with which the cold stomach should be rubbed one hour before the meal.

Aromatic sachet to put on the cold stomach. Take 1 scruple each of fine dry mint, marjoram, rose and wormwood, and 6 grains each by weight of powdered cloves, nutmeg and bedstraw. Mix and pulverize coarsely and make a little sack which should be sprinkled with water of wormwood. This is applied tepid on the stomach. Keep it warm and it should continually touch the flesh.

Usually all these 3 remedies are made for one who has great debility of the stomach through cold so that he retains food with difficulty. These remedies are very powerful.

Another for vomiting from the stomach that spurns food. Take Armenian red clay and egg white and a little very strong vinegar and make a plaster of it. Then put it warm on top of the stomach and soon it will be comforted and will retain food. It makes the stomach good and makes it digest.

Another to make a bad stomach good. Take 1 handful each of southernwood, rue, pennyroyal and fine mint, and a little honey and boil them in good white wine until they are well cooked. Then strain it and save it in a glass vessel for your needs. When in the morning you feel you have a bad stomach, drink 2 or 3 fingers of it warm which comforts the nerves greatly, clarifies and comforts the stomach and purges it. It also helps much in gout since one who eats this herb before and after a meal will not feel pain in the body during that day. It prevents swelling. This is true and tested.

Powder against indigestion from coldness of the stomach.

Take 2 drams each of galingale, cassia wood, rhubarb, zedoary, lavender and willow gum and 1 dram each of cinnamon, ginger and cumin and 1 ounce of sugar and make a powder.

Another powder for the stomach and it is a cure. Take 1 ounce of white tartar, ½ ounce of turbith gum, 1 ½ drams each of choice cinnamon and cloves, 1 scruple of prepared scammony and an appropriate amount of white sugar. Note that one does not take more of this powder than 1 or 1 ½ drams with broth of red chick peas cooked without oil and without salt or cooked in chicken broth. Take this with care.

For those who cannot retain food. Take 2 parts of juice of fennel and 3 parts of honey and boil until it is thickened and give it to the sick person to drink in the morning and evening and he will be cured.

To retain food, as above. Take wormwood and grind it with its stems and fry them in a frying pan with olive oil and with this warm anoint from the stomach all the way to the femur and tibia. Thereafter one should rest. Do this two or three times.

