Best electuary for the stomach. Take the same amount each of gentian, cedar bark, laurel berries and nettle seeds. Put everything together and confect it with honey or sugar and make an electuary. Take a little in the morning and evening and it will give you a very good stomach. It has been tested.

To stop vomiting. Take wormwood with vinegar and make a poultice and put it warm on the top of the stomach and it will help you greatly.

Confection for the upset stomach which comforts it greatly.

Take 3 drams of cistus gum, 1 ounce each of nutmeg, cloves and wormwood, 3 ounces each of galingale and roses, 2 ½ ounces of the flowers of wild grape, ½ ounce each of red and white coral, 5 drams each of aloe wood, mastic and bedstraw and 1 ½ lb. of white sugar and make this powerful confection in the usual way. Take a dose early in the morning on an empty stomach. It will help you greatly to lighten the pain of the stomach and will give you a good appetite.

Another for coldness of the stomach and distress in the chest and for dry cough and in flatulence and it improves the appetite. Take 1 dram each of peeled white ginger, cinnamon and basil, 2 ounces each of large dry figs and raisins and 1 ½ ounces of anise, and everything should be well ground. Boil all these things with very good vernaza or the best white wine until it is reduced one third. Make 4 jugs of it. Take 3 ounces of it early in the morning, tepid with a slice of toasted bread, making soup of it. Do this for several mornings and soon you will be cured.

Another, an ointment for the upset stomach. Take 1 handful each of fine mint and young marjoram and grind them in a stone mortar and put them in a glass bottle and put therein 1 scruple each of ordinary oil, as old as you can find, powdered cloves and powdered mastic and cover it with parchment and leave it in the sun for 15 days. Then rub the top of the stomach with this composition, warm, and wrap it well with unwashed wool and this will cure you rapidly.

Another for the seriously upset stomach. Take quicklime and the same amount of honey and make it in the form of a poultice and put this warm on the stomach and soon you will improve. Make juice from fine mint and drink it warm with powdered cloves and soon it will make a cure.

Another for one whose stomach may not be able to digest and who may not have an appetite, put this salve on the stomach. Take 1 ounce of mastic, ½ ounce of bedstraw, 1 dram of a kind of aromatic rose and 1 scruple each of red sandalwood and ground coriander and make a salve with a little oil of mastic. Hold it on top of the stomach and it will help a great deal in digestion and in appetite.

For one who may have severe coldness in the head.

Take some ivy and prepare it and cook it in water and make lye of it and wash your head with it and do not wash too hard because you will make your head too warm and dried out. It makes the head warm rapidly and also takes away pain in the head. Put in a few ashes when you make this lye and soon you will be cured.

