For the malady from the womb. Take berries of laurel and of ivy and make very fine powder and give it to drink with warm good white wine. She should stay in bed very warm to sweat and soon you will cure her.

Electuary against every distress of the stomach and to purge bad humors.

Take cinnamon, ginger, cloves, galingale, rhubarb, Celtic spikenard, scammony, seeds of rue, anise, fennel and celery, each at your discretion, and all these should be pulverized very finely. Then confect them with boiled honey in the form of an electuary. Take this before and after a meal and it will help you greatly for distress of the stomach caused by bad humors. It is very good.

Another for pain in the stomach. Take 1 handful each of camomile, sweet violets, roses and bran and boil them in good white wine until it reduces in half. Then put these herbs on the stomach and on the kidneys on both sides and they should be as warm as can be borne and it will help you greatly. Then take agrimony and grind it and incorporate it with an egg and eat this warm and you will be cured.

Another for weakness of the stomach. Take 1 dram of camels' hay, 1 ounce each of dry wormwood, mint and feverfew, 1 ounce each of mastic oil, quince oil and lavender oil and one glass of fragrant wine. Boil everything together until the wine has evaporated. Then filter it and add 3 drams each of the kind of diarodon from Abatos and aromatic roses and with sufficient white wax make a liniment. Rub the top of the stomach, warm, morning and evening and soon you will be cured.

Another for the pain in the stomach. Take one glass each of juice of wormwood and of southernwood or take 1 handful of each herb and boil these in 4 glasses of malvasia or in other good white wine and oil of camomile or equivalent. Put everything in a pot to boil on the fire without steaming until it reduces two thirds. When your composition is cooked, strain it. Then take 2 ounces each of male incense and mastic and powder them. Put in these powders and incorporate them well. Save it in a glass vessel, well covered. Rub the top of the stomach with this when it is very warm and keep it warm and soon you will be cured. Eat your food well cooked. If you drink some warm juice of agrimony it will soon lift the pain in the stomach.

