Another for stricture of the stomach. Take 1 dram each of oil of turpentine, of lily and of sweet almond, violets, mucilage, fenugreek, linseed, hyssop, marrow of ox shin bones, human fat and oil of spikenard, 4 drams each of powdered incense, barley flour, laurel berries, 2 drams each of saffron and butter and a little clean wax and make powder of those things that need it. Compound them all together in a crucible on a slow fire and make an unguent in the usual way. In the evening when you go to sleep, warm it and rub the top of the stomach and put on a piece of warm wool. Do this oiling every day and through God's grace soon you will be cured. Take care of yourself, eating little and that well cooked and well chewed, and stay warm.

Another for stricture of the stomach and for cough. Take dry figs and hyssop and pound them together and boil with raw honey. Then in the morning take a little of it, drinking it in any way, and make it warm as you can so it works rapidly. Do this for several days and it will make you well.

Another for stricture of the chest. Take 4 dry figs and add some mustard seeds and licorice seeds and cook them in white wine and press them and drink the wine and soon you will be cured. It has been tested.

For the malady from the womb and for the sickness of pregnancy in women.

Take 3 ounces each of old ordinary oil and oil of camomile, one soldo each of powdered mastic and male incense, 2 scruples of clean wax and butter and a handful of the herb ground pine dried in the shade and made into fine powder. Add a root of greater comfrey, cut finely, and ½ glass of vinegar. Then boil everything in a clean pot on a slow fire until it is reduced 1/3 and it will be made. Save it for your needs and when you want to treat the stomach, warm it and rub it. It should be well wrapped with warm cloths.. Also rubbing with this mixture cold is valuable in sciatica and in kidney pain and you will soon cure these illnesses.

Another for the malady from the womb and in pregnancy. Take some cumin and boil it with wine until it is reduced 1/3 and then strain it and save it. Give 2 fingers of it to the patient to drink in the morning early in the form of a warm syrup and she will be cured rapidly. Also you may do this for ladies with illness in pregnancy.

For sickness with sharp pain in the stomach and severe tenesmus.

In the evening when you go to sleep, rub the stomach with rose oil that should be very warm, rubbing downward very well and put thereon a warm cloth. While you rub downward, you or another who rubs you, says this prayer 3 times for 3 mornings in a row. First say the Pater Noster and then say, viz: “Saint Sixtus was not able to walk to Jesus Christ on the way to meet Him. Christ said to Saint Sixtus, 'What is wrong, Saint Sixtus, that you are so troubled?' 'I am ill from a sharp pain, so I am not able to walk.' Then Christ said to the sharp pain that it should go from him into the sea and nevermore return.” In the name of the Father, Son and Holy Spirit, Amen. You should do this rubbing confidently and closely with the prayer for great pain of the stomach and very soon you will cure. This has been tested by me and by others.

