Another for the tightness in the chest through catarrh. Take one glass of water and put it in a little pot and put therein 1/3 part of clean barley flour and in a little piece of linen put pieces of fine cinnamon and as much grated licorice and boil this slowly. Skim it well and boil it until one glass remains. Then strain it through a sieve and add well-ground almonds with 1 ounce of sugar and again make it boil. In the morning at dawn take it in the form of a syrup for 40 mornings and you will be cured. It has been tested.

For the digestion in the stomach.

Take the root of lappola , that is ground furze, and clean it carefully and scrape it well and separate the center and take the softer part and eat that with salt and pepper before the meal and it will warm up the stomach and comfort it completely, helping you digest without difficulty.

Another to help the stomach of one who has lost appetite. Take 6 to 8 grains of pepper and cut each grain in 2 or 3 parts. Do not crush them; it is better so. In the evening infuse it in two fingers of racese wine or other great wine like corso or malvasia. Early in the morning drink it and swallow the pepper and rest for a while or walk in a closed room for 2 hours and you will feel movement in your body and a good stomach. Do this for 3 mornings in a row and you will be cured.

Another to provoke the appetite. Take 2 ounces each of sumac, acacia, mastic and roses and to these add oil and wax enough to make a poultice and put it warm on the top of the stomach and as the stomach is warmed your appetite will return at once.

*To make the stomach good and to cure headache. Take well-cleaned roots of marsh mallow and cook them throughly in water. Then grind up pistachios to make ½ lb. and take ½ lb. of Venice turpentine and recook everything together. Then save it in a vessel for your needs. In the morning take an amount the size of a nut and it will give you a very good stomach. It is tested. Dominick.

Best remedy for dry cough.

Take 1 ounce of ground licorice and 12 dry figs and 2 ounces of barley sugar and boil these things in a flask of very good white wine until it reduces 1/3. Then strain it and put therein a little tragacanth. Drink this beverage warm and, by continuing it, you will soon be cured of the cough. Also it cleans out your chest. This has been tested.

