Another, an electuary for cough. Take seeds of watercress, myrrh and clean honey and compound them in the form of an electuary. In the evening give it to the patient and soon he will be cured.

The best remedy for stricture of the chest and heavy cough.

Take 6 ounces of dry, fat figs and hyssop leaves dried in the shade and made into fine powder, and cut the figs finely. Then take 2 lbs. of honey and put these things together and boil and skim it very well. When it is cooked, strain it carefully and it will be made. Save it for your needs. In the evening, eat very little and you will be able to take an ounce of it. In the morning take a little more and it should be warm. Soon it will work well and it will help you a great deal.

For the heavy cough make this beverage without fail. Take clean barley flour and cook it in a little pot with a little water so that it is a broth and put therein 1 ounce of clean honey and incorporate well. Then empty this liquid into a bowl and put in enough sugar and make it as warm as the patient can drink it and soon he will be cured. If he has a great cough give him a bowl of it to drink also in the evening. This beverage matures the coldness that is in the stomach so it makes you spit out a large amount through the mouth. Be the person young or old, he will soon be cured. The body and the head should be kept warm. Drink white wine and eat some licorice and soon you will be free of the cough.

Another for the man or woman who may be chilled. Take old male pork fat and ordinary oil and chicken fat, each at your discretion, and a little saffron. First dissolve the fats and strain them. Then put in the oil and the saffron and incorporate them well on a slow fire. Rub the top of the stomach and the soles of the feet with this warm oil. By keeping the stomach and all of the body warm you will soon cure. It is tested.

Another for flatulence from the stomach. Take parsley and rue and make juice of them and drink a glass of it and soon you will be cured.

Remedy for stomach pain. Take 3 ounces each of juice of mint and of rue. Make it hot and drink it and the pain goes away at once.

Another for the above pain of the stomach. Take gentian root and cook it in good white wine and eat the root and drink the wine and it will help you greatly in stomach pain.

Most effective oil for pain of pleurisy, sickness in the womb, colic pain, retracted nerves and for old pains.

Take the oldest light olive oil that can be had. Then take a flask or bottle according to the quantity that you want to make and nearly fill it with true cyclamen flowers. If you can get them, those from the mountain are better. Fill the flask that has the flowers with the oil. Boil it for one hour on a bain marie and let it cool. Then leave it in the sun for a month, well covered, and it will be made. Save it because it is always good, but the older the better. When you want to use it, make it very warm for all infirmities and wrap with warm cloths. Do not fail to rub 2 times a day and when you rub for the pain of pleurisy, rub the place that hurts. The oil should be very warm, as hot as can be borne, and rub 3 or 4 times following the pain or rub along the back, keeping it warm. Blood may be drawn from the sick person as needed.

Do not drink wine, but eat bread soup without salt and do not eat heavy things or things weakening and cooling and eat little. Use one or more enemas so that the body is cleared. With these and other good remedies, with the aid of God, soon you will be cured.

Know that this oil has been tested for all these infirmities. This is one of the most precious oils among all other treasures. There is not found another like it that can be put among the balsams. Whoever has this oil near him will never be a poor man because it has been proved by use. Once in the case of a woman, a drop of this oil fell on her by chance. It was on her private parts and miraculously cured her, almost a thing not to be believed, but it is true.

Another to cure the pain of pleurisy, a most healing remedy. Take half a handful of the herb bear's claw, and 1 handful of the herb wild wormwood. Heat a fire shovel on the fire or a frying pan and put the herbs to soften, squirting them with wine or with the urine of a little child. Then put this herb mixture, as warm as one can stand, on the painful pleurisy and follow the pain where it goes with this poultice, always very warm, and as the pain starts to leave, this is a good sign of a cure, through God's grace. But first draw blood from the side where the pain is. The patient should not drink wine and should rest, stay warm and you will cure him. He should eat bread soup without salt and with boiled water or with barley and nothing else.

Perfect remedy for the illness of pleurisy. Take flowers of red poppy and dry them in the shade and make very fine powder of them. Then take 2 parts of this powder to one part of fine powder of hazelnut shells and give it to the patient to drink with a little cinnamon with warm broth or water distilled from camomile. First draw blood from the arm where the pain is and be careful what is eaten and soon it will be cured.

Another very good remedy for pain of pleurisy. Take camomile and boil it with water until it is reduced one third. Then drink this water warm and put the herb in the form of a plaster as warm as one can stand on the pain and keep it warm. By doing this and observing the rules given above, through God's grace, soon it will be cured.

Another for pain in the chest. Take linseed and fenugreek, cut finely, and bring them to a boil and throw away that water and add a little more water and a little butter and let it boil and take the fat from it and heat it and with it rub the painful place and you will cure.

For the best remedy, take blood from the common vein where the pain is. Then take dry figs and grind them with fat and oil of camomile and put this on the pain in the form of a warm poultice.

Another to cure pain in the chest. Take a greengage apple and cut away all the center and make it in the form of a cup. Then put therein a little male incense made into fine powder and cook it on the grill. Give it to the patient to eat and soon, through God's grace, he will be better. It has been tested.

For the sickness of pleurisy, very true and tested.

Take a quantity of red poppy and dry it in the shade and make very fine powder and save it for your needs, and may God let one escape that need. Take a spoonful of this powder and put it in a glass with 2 ½ ounces of very warm water of camomile and give it to the patient to swallow all at one time. In a short time it will help him. Do not neglect drawing blood from his arm and making there an ordinary cut. He may eat bread soup without salt and may drink barley water. He should stay warm with low light and little speech because this sickness is very dangerous and goes through 4 changes where it lies between life and death. These are, from the start, at 3 days, at 5, at 7 and at 9 days. If he survives for 9 days you will have good hope of health, with God's grace, if he is treated during those days in which he needs good care. Then from time to time he will be able to broaden his life but should not drink wine soon. In this way you will save him with good care and good remedies and quickly. Do not doubt that he will soon be cured.

Another for the pain of pleurisy. Take mallow, fenugreek, linseed, wheat and butter and mix them together and make it very warm and put it in the form of a poultice on the pain and you will help the pleurisy greatly.

Another for the pain of pleurisy and to purge the stomach. Take one and a half handfuls each of rue, southernwood, pennyroyal, mint and hyssop and extract juice and drink a little warm in the morning and the evening and it will help you considerably. Say 3 times over the pain in the chest, 'Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord + + +' with 3 Pater Noster.

For coldness of the stomach and the suffering it causes.

Take white bread made of wheat as soon as it is removed from the oven and, still warm, remove all the crust and put the loaf to soak in the juice of celery. When it is well soaked, reheat it. Then press out the juice and put this warm loaf on the stomach and keep it warm. Do this 2 or 3 times and soon you will cure. It is tested.

To improve digestion. Take honey and ground pepper and mix them on a slow fire. In the morning and also during the day, take a little of this by mouth and it will comfort your stomach and will make you digest food well and you will eat with appetite.

For one who may have asthma and tightness in the chest.

Take the root of tamarisk, washed and very clean, and cut it in fine slices and eat it before meals in the morning and the evening. Likewise, make a decoction of it and use this to drink and it will help you greatly. In all the ways that you eat it, it will be very good to help you recover your breath with greater ease and without harm to your body. Be careful in your way of life and especially keep from anything restricting and by keeping the stomach warm, through God's grace, you will be strengthened.

Another. Hyssop, tamarisk, burnet saxifrage, maiden hair fern, root of sea holly and fennel, each as you please, and distill this and drink this water. It is useful for asthma.

Very good remedy for sickness of pregnancy.

Take 3 ounces each of galbanum gum, and opopanax gum, 1 ounce of male incense, 6 drams each of cinnamon and cloves and 2 drams each of nutmeg and musk. Grind those which can be ground and make pills with white wine and give 3 to 5 each time and, because they are harmless, give it at any hour and it will cure rapidly.

For sickness in pregnancy and malady from the womb.

Take a pine cone, fresh or dry, that has within it pine seeds and grate it and grind it very finely and in the evening give a spoonful of it in warm broth or white wine to the woman when she goes to sleep and, if she arises early, also early in the morning, although that is not important. And if she lacks a strong digestion caused by malady from the womb give her a good spoonful, warm, in the morning with warm wine or chicken broth. She should stay warm and take this powder when she feels distress because it acts rapidly. It has been tested by me for both men and women and especially it has worked wonderfully in nuns.

Most approved remedy for pleurisy.

Take some shells of wild hazel nuts and make very fine powder of them and give a good spoonful to the patient with a pain in the chest to drink with chicken broth or an appropriate water for 2 or 3 mornings. It should be warm. This powder has this property that it breaks those blisters of blood that gather around the heart. But first draw blood following the usual method. The patient should not drink wine, stay warm and you will cure him.

Also the tooth of a wild boar, that is the tusk, filed and finely ground, and given to drink with a little linseed oil does the same. Take 1 ounce of linseed oil with a little ground tusk and boil it and give it to drink. It may cure the pleurisy soon. It has been tested.

For sickness in pregnancy caused by coldness.

Take 1 lb. each of juice of Mercury's herb, of borage and pellitory and 6 ounces of malvasia or very good white wine. Put everything together and boil until it reduces in half. Then strain it carefully and divide it in 7 parts and give it to the patient to drink in the morning in the form of a warm syrup. Before she takes it, first she should urinate and empty the body if she can and you will see a wonderful effect that the pain will leave and she will give birth at her time.

Another for the sickness from the womb and in pregnancy. Say these words 3 times in the left ear in the morning early, viz., 'May I be accepted as a vessel of the Lord and I will call for help in the name of the Lord.' Say 'Amen' 5 times in honor of the 5 wounds of Jesus Christ and say it for 3 mornings with 3 Pater Noster and you will cure her rapidly.

