Another, the best beverage for sickness in pregnancy. Take ½ ounce each of fresh coriander and laurel berries and 2 nutmegs and grind them all into very fine powder. When the woman feels pain within the womb she should take a spoonful of this powder with warm broth, 2 or 3 times a day. Also she should take it with a fresh egg and soon you will cure the pains of pregnancy.

Furthermore, if you take the powdered the seed pods of laurel and mix the powder with wine, it will help greatly in the sickness of pregnancy.

Another, a fomentation for sickness of pregnancy. Take some dry pine cones and make a fomentation of it from below, keeping it well covered so that the vapors are not lost and it will be of great help to you.

Electuary for the stomach and to aid the digestion.

Take 4 ounces each of galingale and ginger, 2 ounces each of nutmeg, cloves, cut and cleaned licorice, 1 ounce each of mace and cinnamon, ½ ounce each of long pepper, grains of paradise and cardamon, and 1 lb. of cleaned honey and make these things into fine powder and then incorporate everything together and you will make a perfect electuary of it. Then every morning take 2 ounces of it, more or less according to how you feel the need, and do this 2 hours before a meal and it will give you a very good stomach, comforting the digestion and your feelings.

The 4 digestions that the stomach makes of food.

First note that if you drink brandy in the morning and the evening with wine, it removes the phlegm from the top of the stomach and improves the appetite, soothes the stomach and cures bad breath, as much through an effect on the stomach as through the action on the brain.

Note that the first digestion is made in the stomach and it digests the food and the substance of the food is passed to the liver through certain veins which transfer the mixture.

The second digestion is made in the liver and the substance which the stomach has sent to the liver is converted into blood and the liver sends it through the veins.

The third digestion is done in the veins which nourishes the limbs.

The fourth digestion is made in the limbs through the capillary veins.

The excess of the first digestion is the feces which nature sends to the bowels.

The excess of the second digestion is urine which the liver sends to the kidneys. Then the kidneys distill it to the bladder through 2 pores which come from the ureters which are suspended in the flesh.

The excess of the third digestion which is made through the veins is sweat.

The excess of the fourth digestion is the nails and the hair. This is enough for you to know about the secrets of digestion of the stomach.

Prayer against sickness during pregnancy.

