Another to cause the period. Take water distilled from orris root. She should drink it with sugar. It cleans sickness within the womb. Also oil of iris is effective if the womb has come out. This can be resolved in some women if they eat 6 drams of this oil and when there is sickness in the womb it will be cured. Give 5 pills in the evening and it will do her good.

Another to cause the period of women immediately. Take 3 tips of Mercury's herb and 3 of mallow and boil them in a jug of good white wine and put therein as much yeast from wheat as a chestnut and 2 scruples of whole saffron and boil it for ½ hour. Then strain it and press it well and give 4 ounces of it to drink in the form of a syrup early in the morning. In the evening wash between the legs downward with lye boiled with roses and camomile and in the same evening rub the body with a mixture of 2 ounces of laurel oil, 1 ounce each of oil of lily and camomile and 2 scruples of saffron and keep it warm and soon her period will come. Do this in the rising of the moon in its first, second, third or fourth quarter.

If it is thought that one is tubercular, use this powder.

Take some large snails in shells in whatever amount you want, and wash them carefully and thoroughly. Then cook them in good vernaza or the best white wine. Remove them from the shell and dry them in the oven in a pan so they do not brown and make very fine powder of them and save them in a clean bottle. Then give a spoonful to the patient to drink with this water, that is with 2 ounces each of water of chicory, of borage and of betony. Give it tepid in the morning at dawn in the form of a syrup. The patient should sleep thereafter for at least an hour. Continue this for 9 mornings and it will give them much sustinance and will also help cure them.

Another to cure one who may have refractory tuberculosis. Take one or more glasses of juice of root of elecampane and a glass of purified honey and put them together in a clean little pot on a slow fire and when you have it well skimmed and cleaned, put in a glass of the above-described powder of snails and mix it well and make it in the form of an electuary and save this. Give a spoonful of it to the patient to eat in the evening when he goes to sleep and also in the morning when he gets up. By continuing it for a few days you will see the wonderful result that there will be a rapid improvement.

Another to aid in curing one who has developed consumption. Take some goat's milk and put therein some powder made from tamarind or cook some finely-cut tamarind in the milk. Then strain it and fill a bowl and put in a spoonful of the above-described powder of snails and give it warm to the patient to drink early in the morning. Then he should sleep for an hour or repose as long. Continue this beverage for a least 15 days and soon you will see great improvement.

