Another electuary to cure refractory tuberculosis. It is tested. Take ½ ounce each of cinnamon, cardamon, ginger and cloves and 4 scruples of saffron and some of the powder of snails described above and powder made from turtles in the way that you made that of snails and take one full bowl of each, and one bowl each of flowers of rosemary and borage, ½ bowl each of flowers of broom, of nettle and of mallow, and 1 handful each of white roses, blue violets, rosemary, hyssop, sage, marjoram, mint, melissa and root of couch grass, half a handful each of white dittany, horehound, celery, southernwood and rue, and root of elecampane, scabiosa and root of asparagus, each at your discretion, and ½ ounce of laurel berries. All these things, except the flowers, should be dried in the shade, not in the sun, and made into very fine powder. You can make more or less of it, according to how difficult it seems to you to make it. Use this powder at your discretion. Then take 1 lb. of fresh butter and 2 lb. of clarified and clean honey. Put the honey and butter on a slow fire and when it is well clarified put therein the powder described above, little by little, while it boils and incorporate it well. At the end put in the powdered spices with the saffron and mix them very well on a slow fire until it becomes in the form of an electuary and save this in a suitable bottle in a cool place. Give the patient one dose in the evening when he goes to sleep and also in the morning and he should rest for one hour. By continuing this electuary for one who needs it, soon he will feel and improvement and increase in strength. He should take care of how he lives, keeping to a good life and not being intemperate. That will be sufficient for you to cure him with the remedies described above.

Oil for the stomach to cure one who has tuberculosis.

Another oil to rub the stomach of one who has become thin with consumptive illness and to cure quickly. Take 1 dram each of flowers of rue, of dill, of marsh mallow and of broom and put them in a pot in the oldest ordinary oil that you can find and cover it with parchment. Boil it for one hour on a bain marie and let it cool there. Then let it stay in the sun for 10 to 15 days and it will be made, the most perfect oil for this consumptive illness. Take a little of it in a small bowl and make it very warm and rub the stomach well in the evening and morning and put on a stupe of tow with a warm cloth on it and wrap it well so that it stays warm. This application will help greatly with the remedies given above. After lunch do some exercise so the blood is rewarmed and, with the aid of God, and refraining from anything intemperate, you will be better and better and will be cured of this illness and will become as fat and young as before, through God's grace.

Also if you sometimes use the following beverage, it will help you greatly in the above sickness. Take clean roots couch grass and rosemary, each the same amount, and make very fine powder and take one spoonful and drink it with goat's milk with a little purified honey added. Do this in the evening or in the morning and it will greatly help the stomach. These are tested.

Bath for warming the womb.

Take 1 handful each of mugwort, savin, red madder and flowers of camomile, ½ handful each of wormwood, mountain mint and oregano, ½ ounce each of sweet flag, lavender, camels' hay, rue, anise and Sicilian fennel. Make a decoction of all of these herbs in 4 pails of water and boil until it reduces one third part or one half. Then put it in a basin or other vessel made so the woman can sit there for warming below and while she is on the bath, one can make her a sachet with these herbs to smell them there and she should stay there for a good hour. She should continue this bathing according to how she sees the need for it.

Bath for cooling the womb. Take 1 handful each of leaves of endive, lettuce, red roses, flowers of water lily, white poppy, teasel, leaves of willow and leaves of white grapes, ½ handful each of mallow and marsh mallow with the roots and sweet violets, and ½ ounce each of seeds of melon, of lettuce, of squash, of endive, of citron and of escarole. Mix and make a decoction with 4 pails of water and boil until it reduces one third. Then with the tepid bath in a suitable vessel and with the stomach empty, the woman should sit uncovered, without clothing, so that she does not sweat. She should stay for an hour. It will be necessary for her to continue this for many days. This bath with other things will help greatly to discharge part of the warm nature caused in the womb.

Bath or poultice for cooling the kidneys.

Take 2 ounces each of rose water, water of endive, of lettuce, of house leek, of stone crop, of water lily and of squash, 3 grains of camphor and 3 egg whites well beaten in these waters. Then, with this warm, bathe the kidneys with a sponge or linen cloth, continually bathing the kidneys for the space of an hour, more or less, according to how you feel. Do this in the evening and the morning and soon you will feel better. Then rub yourself with the following unguent, viz., take 2 ounces each of oil of rose and violet, 1 dram each of red and yellow sandalwood, 1 ½ drams of vinegar and 4 grains of camphor and incorporate with wax on a slow fire. When you have removed it from the fire, put in the camphor and not sooner, because everything might go up in smoke. Mix it until it becomes cold and the unguent will be made for cooling the heated kidneys. Use this unguent after the bath and soon it will free you from every pain of the kidneys.

For one who may be tubercular.

Take 5 large dry figs, ½ ounce each of sweet fennel, maiden hair fern, celery seed and licorice, and half a handful of hyssop and horehound. Grind all these things coarsely and boil them in 30 lbs. of cistern water until it is reduced in half. Then strain it and save it and take 3 ounces in the form of a syrup in the morning and it will help you greatly.

For dropsy caused by the spleen.

