Take some leaves of dwarf elder that grows around ditches, that is wild elder. Dry it and make fine powder. Then take some rose honey and incorporate this powder well and make 3 pills and take them in the evening when you go to sleep. This will make you go from the body. Then you should make oil from its berries which should be well ripened. Take the oldest olive oil you can find and put in it these seeds that are very ripe and boil them in a glass vessel on a bain marie for an hour. Put it in the sun for a whole month. After you have taken these pills, rub the body in the evening with this oil and it should be very warm. Do this rubbing every evening and especially on the hard spleen which is responsible for the serious dropsy. Do that several times with this ointment and if it is not helping you, do this other method. Take some of the ground leaves of dwarf elder and make juice of it and heat it very warm and with this rub the body and you will see a wonderful result. Also bathing areas of warm gout several times with the juice of this herb will make the great pain cease. But be advised that in the evening that you take the pills, do not rub the body, but in the morning you can rub with the warm juice and you will feel the greatest benefit. Note that on the day you rub the hard spleen you may want to take 3 pills of colchicum for 4 days before the moon is rising and this will do you very great service. Also take those elder berries that are very ripe, dry them and make powder. Use it to eat like a spice in soup. Also eat a large amount of lemon balm which is well suited to put our body in order, that is the spleen receives the above things for its health. Using the remedy described above and keeping youself from many adverse things and, with the aid of God and also with good self-governance, you will be cured quickly, because many persons who use this medication are completely cured of the blockage of dropsy and the spleen is returned to its good state.

Most approved remedy for the person who may be swollen with dropsy.

