Take orris roots, as many as you wish, clean them and wash them well, cut them and grind them in the mortar. Put them in a pot and put therein a little water and also a little vinegar and heat it well until it comes to a boil. Then put it again in the mortar with a little of the broth and regrind it very well. Press it and extract as much juice as you can with the press. Strain it and take 6 ounces of this juice and 2 ½ ounces of raw honey and put them together and return it to the fire in a little pot. Make it barely start to boil and skim it well. Then strain it again, warm, through fine cloth and save it for your needs. When you want to give it to the swollen patient, give him 2 ½ ounces as a warm syrup for 3 mornings in a row. He should stay in bed in repose with enough covers on his back to sweat and when he is sweating, rub him thoroughly and let him sweat. Soon there will be a bowel movement. He should not eat before there are at least 2 bowel movements from the body. Then he should eat lightly and little and well cooked and not eat any fruit nor other watery things, nor sour things and, through God's grace, soon you will cure because this has been tested many times and through God's grace people are cured.

For blockage and swelling.

Take 16 lb. of malvasia or good, lively white wine and put therein 1 handful each of these herbs: horehound, sage, hyssop, fennel, endive and bugloss and put everything in a clean vessel without odor and boil it until it reduces in half. Then strain it and press the herbs in the little press and extract the substance, incorporating it with the wine. Then put it again in the pot and put in 6 ounces of clean honey and reboil it for a quarter of an hour. Strain it again so it is very clear. Save it in a glass flask, well covered, in a cool place for your needs. In the morning give the patient 6 ounces to drink as a warm syrup and put in one-half tablespoon of very fine powder of tartar from white wine. Do this for 8 to 10 mornings in a row. Then stay in bed to sweat. Dry yourself very well. Afterward get wrapped in a robe and walk in the room so that the blood is rewarmed and eat when you feel some appetite. Eat things good for you and well cooked. Drink little and stay warm. Continue with this beverage as described and soon, with God's grace, you will be cured. This has been tested by many persons and they are cured and well, through God's grace.

Crush some roots of fennel and celery and extract juice and take an equal weight or measure with a little good white wine in the form of a warm syrup. By continuing this for several days you will soon be cured of the swelling. It has been tested.

For one whose face has become yellow.

Take the herb betony and dry it and make very fine powder of it and drink it warm with good white wine early in the morning as a syrup. The good color will return soon to your face. Also boil some of this herb in malvasia with 1 handful each of southern wood, horehound, burnet saxifrage, chicory, absinthe, marjoram and rosemary, and give 2 ounces of this as a syrup. Use this beverage to drink and the color of your face will return to the way it was before. If you will do this you will be cured rapidly. It has been tested.

Water for blockage of the veins.

Take 1 handful each of the herbs scabiosa, bugloss, sage, fennel, hyssop and horehound and distill all these herbs in a glass still with a jug of good white wine and when it has been distilled, take all that water and redistill it. Then save it in a glass vessel and give 2 ounces of it to the patient every morning in the form of a warm syrup. It should be taken early and it will help the person greatly.

Electuary for stomach problems caused by the spleen and humors from bad blood.

Take 2 ounces each of fresh roses and rue, 4 ounces each of roots of endive, of chicory, of betony and fennel and 6 ounces each of borage and verbena. All these things should be cut and ground finely and, if desired, they can be candied in 3 lbs. of honey. Then put in these spices: 1 ounce of cloves, 1 dram of saffron and 2 ounces of nutmeg, and incorporate them well and cook it a little and use it and it will help you.

Electuary for blockage or dropsy or consumption or for one who may have a bad stomach.

Take 1 ounce of steel filings and clean them of roughness in this way, viz: take the steel filings which should be filed finely and put them in a clean pot and put thereon some strong white vinegar, as strong as possible. Cover it well and put it in a warm place. Every evening remove all the vinegar and replace it with new and do this for 5 or 6 days in a row. The last time leave it in and boil this on a slow fire until the vinegar is all consumed. Then remove it from the fire and grind it on porphyry or hard marble until it is almost impalpable and it will be made. Know that this is the true secret of preparing steel and do not prepare it if you do not need it because it soon becomes rusty and is not good. Therefore make a little at a time. You should know that this is very good for blockage of the liver. This preparation has been tested by use.

Then take one quatrino of fine cinnamon, 2 q uatrini each of saffron and cloves, and grind everything finely and incorporate with 1 lb. of cleared and clean honey and make an electuary in the usual way. In the morning on an empty stomach and in the evening when you go to sleep, take one spoonful of it and wait ½ hour before you go to sleep and you will see a wonderful effect. It has been tested.

One who has been blocked for 9 mornings should go before sunrise to a hedge of the plant called God's flower and on his knees say, 'God save you, God's flower.' He should say 3 Pater Noster and Ave Maria. Then he should urinate on the plants, saying, 'Do what the Lord ordered you to do,' and he will free himself from the blockage and be cured.

Another for dropsy. Take juice of bedstraw, nutmeg, fennel and absinthe, each the same amount, and give it several times to the patient to drink and he will be cured. Again grind rue with wine or with beer and drink it several times it will help greatly in swelling of the body. Eat some betony with honey and soon one will be cured.

Laxative for the dropsies and to help in flatulent hernia.

Take 1 ounce of juice of greater comfrey, 10 drams of iris juice, 6 drams of radish juice and 1 lb. of Syrup of Five Roots and boil them in enough water of endive and fennel and make a thin syrup in the usual way. The dose should be 2 or 3 ounces and it draws out the yellow water rapidly and heals the dropsy quickly.

To make you urinate take 2 drams of tartar and 6 drams of turpentine and wash it well with 4 to 6 waters. Incorporate everything together with a little rose honey and a very little mastic. Then take some during the evening into the morning and during the morning into the evening and it will make you go several times from your body without distress.

Water for the liver and to cause urination.

Take celandine, juniper, henbane, spurge and peeled elecampane, each the same amount, and grind all together and distill in a glass still and save the water in a well-stoppered flask. Note that this water is very good for the liver when it is bathed repeatedly to remove heat. Bathing the pubic area repeatedly causes urination of gravel. For one who falls from epilepsy, bathe the ears and the nostrils and he will soon recover. It also helps one who has a headache. By bathing inside the ears the pain will soon cease.

Treatment for the heated liver.

Take 1 lb. of water of endive, 4 ounces each of chicory, of waterlily, of nightshade, of wormwood and of liverwort, ½ scruple of camphor and 2 ounces of rose vinegar. Put everything together in a clean pot. Then heat it and make a decoction in the usual way, that is wetting a piece of wool or a sponge, wetting it well. Press it out and put it warm on the right side of the liver. Keep it warm and as it cools rewarm it again. Do this 3 or 4 times in the evening and in the morning and soon you will feel much better. Each hour when you use the decoction, rub the top of the kidneys with sandalwood unguent and it will help greatly. The unguent is made in this way, viz.:

Galen's unguent for cooling the kidney and for every overheating.

