Take some clove basil and some of its seeds, ginger, tamarind and fresh anise, each the same amount, and make fine powder of everything. Then mix it with rosewater and water of cherry plums. If you drink a half glass of it in the morning and evening when you go to sleep, it will help you greatly in such distress. If you do not have such waters, take some white wine and boil these herbs in it and drink this wine in the same way as the water. By continuing it, through God's grace, soon you will be cured.

Most perfect water for phthisis.

Take snails in shells and wash them carefully and well with fresh water. Then boil them as much as needed. Remove them from the shells and wash them very well with salt until that thick foam goes away. Then with fresh water skim it well and let them soak a while. Distill them in a glass still on a slow fire so they do not burn. Also put in some fresh cypress nuts, finely cut, 1 handful of cut rosemary, 1 lb. of borage flowers, 6 ounces of bugloss and for each pound of snails put in 4 ounces of sugar and incorporate everything. Save the water that comes out of the distillation in a covered glass vessel. Take it at your pleasure in the morning when you arise, in the evening when you go to sleep, before meals and after meals and make the effort to drink it as warm as you can because it serves you better than it will if it is cold. The more of it you will drink the sooner you will be cured. Taken a little and repeatedly, it will give you great sustenance and will give you a good and active stomach and, through God's grace, you will soon be cured. It has been tested.

Another for phthisis. Take some of the herb coltsfoot and pork lard and beat them together and incorporate a fresh egg in the form of a pancake and eat it warm. Do this for 9 mornings in a row and you will see a wonderful result. It is useful to fatten a person who is thin.

For one who spits blood through having broken a vein in the chest.

Take some mouse droppings and make them into very fine powder, about half a spoonful, and put it in a half glass of plantain juice with a little sugar. Give the patient some of it as a tepid drink in the evening when he goes to sleep and also early in the morning.

In a few days you will be healthy. Take care of yourself. Eat things well cooked and well chewed and stay warm and you will be cured.

For the heated liver and to diminish pain from the spleen.

Take the leaves and flowers of tamarisk, as much as you wish, and dry it in the shade and make fine powder of it. Then give the patient one spoonful of it in a fresh egg or in wine early in the morning. Then give him a few raisins with a finger of wine for 15 to 20 days. He should take care of himself by not eating things bad for him and soon he will be much better.

Also you can take half a handful each of buds of the rose before they are open, betony, valerian, sage, mint, horehound, rue and leaves and flowers of tamarisk. Dry them in the shade and make fine powder of them. Give a spoonful every morning in a fresh egg to the patient who is sick from over-heating of the liver and to diminish pain from the spleen. Also if he eats the powder in any fashion, it will help him greatly and soon he will be cured.

Another to cure the liver. Take 3 ounces of juice of chicory with 1 ounce of sugar for 3 mornings and the liver will soon be cured.

Electuary for distress of the stomach, for tuberculosis and for the hardened spleen.

