Another for pain from the womb, to Saint Bridget. 'God who allowed the blessed virgin Bridget to overcome harm, do this for your servant, you who are increate Father +, increate Son +, increate Holy + Spirit. Christ, son of the living God, free this, your servant, from all pain. Christ, son of the living God, free this, your servant, from burning and pain. Caspar brought myrrh +, Melchior incense +, Balthasar gold +.' Who carries with her these three names, their power will free her from sickness by the presence of the compassion of the Lord. Amen.

'Jesus of Nazarus, King of Judah, + Jesus Christ, son of the living God, have pity on your servant (woman or man) +. Jesus passed through the multitudes. + Christ conquers, + Christ reigns +, Christ rules +, Christ is God made man. + Jesus Christ the King comes in peace and God is made man +. Asto, agato, alpha et omega + tetragramaton +. Merciful creator, my God, all tremble before you. All the angels and archangels worship the word of the eternal Father.'

A tested prayer for pain in the womb.

Say: 'O illness in the womb, with as many as a hundred roots, it moos like a cow, jumps like a deer, howls like a wolf, barks like a dog, roars like a lion, stares like a fish, hisses like a serpent. In the body a baby cries. O illness of the womb, + I implore you by the God + of Abraham, by the God + of Isaac, by the God + of Jacob, by the God who confines the roots of the fern, may he restrain you from this wretched servant. Again I implore you womb, by the angels and archangels, by the prophets and innocents, by the virgins, by the saints and by Saint Gregory, and by the wounds of our Lord Jesus Christ, and his holy birth. God restrain you to your place where you belong. Holy Mary aid and set free your servant (name) from the illness of the womb so that it does not have power to harm your servant (name) of God (name) neither by day nor night, neither sleeping nor waking, neither drinking nor eating, neither walking nor sitting. Return to the place from which you came, from skin to skin, from foot to foot, from flesh to flesh. Amen. Agios, agios, agios, kirie eleison, kirie eleison, kirie eleison. Lord God who freed Susanna from false crimes, and Saint Agnes from torments, and Saint Catherine from the hands of the Emperor Maximian, and Saint Margaret from the hands of the Devil, so free your servant (name) from the sickness of the womb as you freed the Virgin Mary and her women. Amen.'

