Know that the mother of Saint Gregory was much tormented by many sicknesses and pains of the womb and she said this prayer as a remedy from these illnesses and at once she was freed from them. This prayer should be read in bed every morning and carried by the woman for 5 mornings. With a consecrated candle burning, she should say 5 Pater Noster with 5 Ave Maria, kneeling, and, through God's grace, soon she will be freed.

For one who has a trembling heart or may be fearful both sleeping and waking, say this prayer in the evening with the Pater Noster, viz., “In the name of God and the Virgin Mary and the Holy Trinity. Madonna, the Holy Mary, was standing a long time by the sea and a sad lady came to her. 'Why is it, sad lady, that you weep and sigh?' 'I have only my son and I am losing him from scorbattulo .' 'Come away, sad lady, and take the fruit of the bee, a white comb for the head and risen bread and put it on the chest of your son.' At the end of 3 days he will be cured and free, if it is pleasing to God and the Virgin Mary and the Holy Trinity. So be it. + + +” Say this 3 times and you will have no more fear. You will be cured.

To reduce the flow of menstruation when it is too heavy.

Take 3 plantain roots with the leaves and cook them in river water and give some of that to the patient to drink and soon menstruation is checked.

For illness of the womb. Take equal amounts of roasted deer horn, incense and mastic, all pulverized, and put that in the private place of the patient.

Electuary to take by the stomach against womb pain. Take 1 dram plus 1 scruple each of cloves, cinnamon, crocus, nutmeg, long pepper, zedoary, mace, cubebs, galingale, cardamon and ginger, ½ ounce each of rosemary leaves and flowers, 2 drams plus 2 scruples each of mint, sage, thyme, hyssop, betony, mugwort, marjoram, anise seed, fennel, coriander, red coral and ground pine and make an electuary with honey. First take herbs that are well matured with aroma and many flowers and when making the electuary, always mix with a wooden spatula.

