Take a pound of malvasia wine and ground long pepper and distill these in a glass still or vitreous decanter and wash with this water in the morning and evening for 4 to 6 days and you will be freed. Tested in Ferrara in 1566.

*Take 2 handfuls each of mountain hyssop and southernwood, 2 lb. each of fresh malvasia wine and fresh milk, and 6 ounces of mustard seed. Infuse these for 3 days and then distill in a still as above and bathe where needed.

Ointment for the ridge of the kidney in quartan fever.

Take 1 handful each of sage, rosemary, rue and mistletoe, and put them in a clean pot and put therein one glass each of ordinary oil and oil of rue and malvasia or strong white wine and boil it covered on a slow fire until one third or a little more remains. Then remove it from the fire and strain it through cotton cloth and press the herbs in the press and extract all the substance. Put these together in a little pot and again on the fire and put therein ½ ounce of ground white mastic, 1 ounce of clean wax and 1 scruple of male incense and let it boil very slowly so it reduces one third and it will be made. One hour, more or less, before the day of the fever comes, rub along the backbone, beginning above and ending below. The ointment should be very warm and rub well downward and keep the patient warm and you will cure.

Another for quartan fever. Take 1 ounce each of old theriac and brandy distilled 3 times and make it into 3 parts, and heat one of these parts and rub along the backbone, beginning at the neck down to the coccyx and also across. Do this 3 times in a row when the fever comes and soon you will cure it.

Another for quartan fever. Take 6 ounces of good brandy and put it in a little carafe and put therein one ounce of whole cloves and a little root of dwarf elder of the white kind, well washed and clean. Then cover it and let it stay in the sun for 2 or 3 days. As soon as you feel that the fever is coming, take 2 ounces of it. It should be rather tepid and drink it at once. Always keep it well stoppered because it will lose its substance. Stay warm in bed and take this 3 times before the fever assails you and, through the grace of God, soon you will be cured because this has been tested.

Another for quartan fever. Take 1 handful or more each of wormwood, rue, southernwood and mugwort, so that you extract 3 ounces of each kind totalling in all 1 lb. and 8 ounces of aged ordinary oil and 4 ounces of laurel oil and incorporate everything. Put it in a small pot on a very slow fire until it reduces in half to obtain all the juice. Then strain it and return it to the fire and put therein 1 ounce of new wax and as it melts remove it from the fire and it will be made. Then a half hour before the fever is near, turn the kidneys to the fire and rub along the backbone well downward and put a warm cloth there and go to bed so you stay warm. Do this 3 or 4 times and the quartan fever will not come again. Take care of yourself and you will be cured.

Another. Take an apple, not too ripe, and divide it in 3 parts and each morning of the fever eat one piece of it. Say 3 Pater Noster and 3 Ave Maria and write on one piece these holy words, viz., 'Jesus Christ died on the wood of the true cross.' On the second day say 6 Pater Noster with 6 Ave Maria and write this, “ At the hour the earth trembled, Jesus Christ said, 'Why do you shake, earth? You do not have chills or fever.' ” With the third piece say 12 Pater Noster with 12 Ave Maria and write, viz., 'Who says these words will have neither chills nor fever.' At the end say 24 Pater Noster with 24 Ave Marie with devotion and the quartan will go away quickly. It is tested.

Another for quartan fever. Take a large loaf of bread warm from the oven and at once plunge it in a basin full of very strong vinegar and let it soak, well covered. Then distill it in a glass still with all the vinegar that remains. Give one ounce of it to the feverish one to drink before the fever comes. It will make the bad fever go during the attack and afterward and he will soon be cured.

Best beverage for quartan fever.

Take 1 handful each of betony and ground pine and 2 jugs of good white wine and boil it until it reduces one third. Strain it and press the herbs in the press and extract the substance and save it together in a clean vessel. When the quartan comes, drink one glass of it warm and at once go to bed in order to sweat, well covered, and if you sweat it is a good sign of rapid cure. Do this 4 to 6 times when the fever comes and you will be cured.

Another for quartan fever. Two to 3 hours before the quartan fever comes, for 3 times in a row that is for 3 mornings, take the herb cinquefoil, that is potentilla, and eat it in the form of a salad with a slice of bread and make 7 little pieces of it and not more nor less. Be certain that the quartan will go away rapidly and without other distress. Be careful what you eat and soon you will be cured.

Another tested remedy for quartan fever. Take ½ dram each of gentian and peony root and make very fine powder of and make it into 5 parts and when the hour of the fever comes make a good fire and give one of the parts of this powder to drink with good warm wine. Then rub the ridge of the kidneys with laurel oil. Do this 5 times. Then put him warm to bed and in a few days he will be free. The first time you find a little improvement, this is the best sign that you can have of a cure but you know he must take care of himself and stay warm.

To get rid of quartan, tertian or quotidian fever rapidly. Take the head of one femur and make very fine powder of it. One spoonful should be given to the patient in a drink or in food and he will be freed. In three to five times he will be freed quickly. It is tested.

Another for quartan fever. Take a clean pot and fill it with dried holy thistle. Then fill it with water and boil it until it reduces in half, keeping it well covered. Remove it from the fire and strain it with care, removing the herbs. Then give 4 ounces of this liquid to the feverish one before the paroxysm comes. He should go to bed at once, well covered in order to sweat, and soon he will be cured of the quartan because all the heat will be expelled. It is tested.

Another medicine for quartan and tertian fever. Take half a glass of vinegar and put in a fresh egg and let it stay covered for one whole day. Then the next morning break this egg in the same vinegar and drink everything together in good spirits. When you have drunk it you will feel great agitation in the stomach which is a good sign because the vinegar in this way breaks the scorching heat that is in the stomach that is the fever. It will make the fever disappear both above and below the stomach. Know that for a year the fever will not come because this is reported by good testimony. You will be cured.

Pills against fever.

Take 1 dram of lapis lazuli and 2 drams of pills of India and incorporate them with rose syrup and make 3 pills. Take one, one hour before the fever comes and repeat this 3 times until the end of the fever and soon you will be cured. Be careful to keep warm and eat lightly.

For a little child who has a swollen abdomen. Take seeds of heliotrope and give it to drink with wine or broth for 3 or 4 days and soon the child will be freed.

