'Omnipotent immortal God who through his mercy gave his grace to his most holy apostle, Saint Peter, so may God give to this being (name) or to this one (name) that neither fever nor other malign spirit may vanquish them nor have power over them. I implore you, fever, that you rise up from this being, by the 7 names of Christ, which names are these, viz., saladon, hasitolan , the third name, the fourth sattolia , the fifth hanaii , the sixth cielo , the seventh zuampiero . I implore you, fever, without any question, that you must come forth from this being (name), by the Father, Son and Holy Spirit, by our omnipotent God, by his holy birth, by the baptism, by his passion, by his holy resurrection, by the joy when he arrived in heaven, by the majesty of the Holy Spirit, by the virginity of the glorious Virgin Mary and by all the holy angels and archangels of God who tell of the day of birth, by the virtue of the princely cherubims and seraphims, by the hundred thousand delegates who stand always at the seat of God, by the 12 apostles, by the 4 evangelists, by the martyrs, by the virgins, by the heavens, by the moon , by the sun, by the earth and by all the stars of God, to remove its power over this being (name), if it is the wish of the Lord God to free this being (name) from every fever, secondary, tertian, quartan, sextan, or septan, in the name of God the Father, the Son and Holy Spirit.'

“Before the gate of Galicia, Saint Peter fell with the fever and Christ turned and said, 'Why do you stop, Peter?' Saint Peter answered and said, 'Lord, I have the fever.' Christ said, 'Say this prayer and at once you will be freed.' Saint Peter, giving thanks to God, was satisfied.” So each person who will read or will have it read will be freed of every fever as said above, in the name of the Father and Son and Holy Spirit. Amen. Note that this prayer is done in bed for 5 mornings over the sick person with devotion, with 5 Pater Noster and with the blessed candle burning and, with the aid of God, you will cure. It is tested.

