“In the name of the holy and indivisible Trinity, Father, Son and Holy Spirit, Amen. In the name of the most holy night in which the Virgin Mary gave birth when Christ was born. Christ died and Christ rose again and commanded that those with wounds be healthy and well cared for without putrefaction and chills, without fever and without vomiting blood, without broken bones and without any pain or illness. So Christ orders and the blessed Virgin Mary prays. Just as the foreign unbeliever pierced the side of our Lord Jesus Christ with a spear and the blessed wound healed and did not lead to putrefaction but healthy flesh grew in honor of the passion of our Lord Jesus Christ, such wounds will be healed well without any scar by the seven words which he said on the cross to God, Father omnipotent, 'Forgive those who know not what they do.' Amen. ' I say today you will be in Paradise.' ' Ely, ely lama zabatani.' ' Woman, behold your Son.' 'I thirst.' 'Into your hands I commend my soul.' 'It is finished.' In the name of the Father and Son and Holy Spirit, Amen. Ghet, ghimel, igbabil.” Then the patient should say the Pater Noster three times in honor of the most Holy Trinity. Then take the water and say, 'I bless you water through Jesus Christ, the Son of him who is our only Lord, who in Cana in Galilee, as a sign of his miraculous power, changed you into wine, who walked over you with his feet and was baptized by John in the Jordan, and you are all in one with the blood coming forth from his side. He said to the disciples that it cures all wounds. In the name of the Father, Son and Holy Spirit, Amen.' Again, 'I bless you, water, in the most holy name of the Virgin Mary +. I bless you + water + in the name of all the holy works of God. I bless you + water + in the name of that most holy night when the blessed Virgin Mary gave birth to his Son, our Lord Jesus Christ. I bless you, water, by the most cruel death of our Lord Jesus Christ. I bless + you by the resurrection and by the decree that he made when he ordered that without any impurity, danger, pain, chills, any cut nerves will be well healed and clean and without any illness the wounds will be healed. In this way also wounds upon which will have been poured out this water for all maladies be healed, in the name of the Father + Son + and Holy Spirit. Amen.' These words are said as an invocation over a dish full of water with a Pater Noster and an Ave Maria. First wet the clothes that you place on the wound and the patient should tell the circumstances and say 3 Pater Noster with the Ave Maria. Put the cloths on in the form of a cross. Treat 2 times a day and put the soiled cloths on the fire and no cloths from women. You know what that means.

Also this water is powerful for the person who has white menstruations or problems with the kidneys, by drinking one glass in the morning early in the form of a syrup with 3 Pater Noster. Continue this for 10 to 15 mornings and you will cure. If one who has quartan fever drinks it, he will be cured quickly.

Prayer against any kind of fever.

