Take a large flask for the fire with a wide neck and fill it full with 15 pounds of cistern water, or with rose water or other odoriferous water if you will make it as some great master apothecaries do. Put in 1 ounce of sublimate, 2 ounces of rock alum and 1 ounce of salt. This is the principle preparation and everything should be finely ground. Put this flask in front of the fire on a brick and let it boil uncovered until it reduces down from the neck. Remove it from the fire and let it cool. Then put therein the juice of 6 lemons and of 3 or 4 sour oranges and the whites of 4 fresh eggs, well beaten, and shake the flask very well upside down so that everything is incorporated well. Then strain it through fine linen cloth and return it to the flask and put it in the sun, covered, for 3 or 4 days and it will be made, a noble, high class water for itch, perfect for any need. It lasts a very long time and never spoils and will be very odorous and white. When you want to use it, shake it up and wet a little sponge in this water and squeeze it out a little and bathe only the joints of the wrists carefully instead of the whole body, alternately on one evening and not on the next. Rub yourself with this for 3 or 4 evenings, according to how much rash you have and the last time that you do not want to do any more, wash all your body with good lye and change to other clothes and all the itching will go away. Where you have sores, that is oily scabs, wet around and around, but do not touch them which will make them irritated. You should know that this water has such virtue that after you have bathed the first time you will not feel such itching again because it clears away that corrupt blood that flows with the thin humor through the flesh. This pulls water out from the joints and makes them dry, without harm to the rest of the body which remains free and healthy. Also where this water does touch, it will make the flesh white and fade the dark signs on the body and make the flesh very sweet smelling and spotless. This has been tested. When you would like to bathe some little child, do not shake the water but take from that on top that is clearer and less strong and gentler and the child will be pleased and soon will be cured. You should know that the escort of our Lord, Pope Clement VII, and also his steward of the holy palace who were both treated by me were healed and cured more quickly than one would believe possible by this water which was made with musk roses. This water was much praised by them without knowing the composition. If you do not make it with rose water, make it with plain water from the cistern and it also will take on the odor and will have the same effect. In either form it has been tested many, many times.

Another water for simple itching. Take a little carafe full of cistern water and put therein 2 ounces of rock alum and ½ ounce of salt with everything finely ground, and boil it on a brick facing the fire until it reduces one fourth. Then remove it from the fire and when it is cool, strain it through a piece of fine linen and save it for your needs. In the evening when you go to sleep, wash carefully all the joints of the arms and legs and the wrists on alternate evenings. When all the itching has stopped on the body, on the last evening, take a bath and change clothes. In these days be careful of your diet. Do not eat harmful things, not green vegetables, nor fruit, nor pork meat, but for 6 to 8 days drink cooling fresh waters with ½ ounce of rose honey added which will help your stomach greatly and will cool the liver so that all this material will be dried up and will go away and you will not notice it. This has been used many, many times on various persons and it has worked wonderfully in poor and rich persons. Be well.

Best and perfect unguent for a rash.

Take 2 lb. of ordinary oil, 6 ounces of new wax, 2 ounces of strong white vinegar, 8 ounces of washed turpentine, 1 ounce each of laurel oil and salt, 2 ounces of white sublimate, 6 ounces of rock alum, 1 lb. of white lead, 4 ounces of Alexandrian clay, 6 ounces each of yellow sulfur, butter and yellow litharge and the yolks of 4 fresh eggs. Take the oil, the vinegar, the wax and the turpentine and put them in your ladle or bowl and put it on the glowing coals without flame and leave these to melt well but then at once stir with your spatula and do not let them boil. Then remove it from the fire and do not return it. Put in all the other things very finely powdered, beginning with the rock alum, salt, white lead, clay, sublimate, sulfur, butter, litharge and the yolks go in last. One by one incorporate them well with your stick until when you put in the last thing it should be cold and everything should be incorporated equally and with great diligence. At the end put in a little rose water and it will be made, unguent for itch, best and perfect for every requirement and wherever it is needed. All the rash will be gone if, in the evening when you go to sleep, you rub the wrists carefully and the joints of the arms, hands and legs. Do this for 3 or 4 evenings. Then wash all your body and you will remove all the greasy scabs. Change your clothes and all the rash will be gone and you will remain clean and clear. But first of all you must be careful what you eat. Do not eat pork meat which is contrary to health at this time.

Do not be surprised that I have given you the procedure, weight and measure for a large amount. In our shop in Lucca I keep about 7 or 8 pounds of it, putting it in jars for 9 to 12 quatrini each, according to the size. Each little container cures one or two persons quickly. It is very true that one can make it without a few of the ingredients and it will do almost the same if more is put on the rash.

Another for rash. Take 1 lb. of ordinary oil, 3 ounces of white wine or rose water and put them in a pot on a slow fire and boil it very slowly. Take 4 ounces of white sulfur and wrap it in a little cloth and make a button of it and boil it in this oil until it is reduced one third. Then remove it from the fire and strain it at once and put therein these things, warm: 3 ounces of white wax, 4 ounces of finely ground white lead and ½ ounce of liquid storax and continue to stir until it is cold so that everything is well incorporated together. If it does not seem sufficiently white to you, add another bit of white lead with ½ ounce of salt ground like flour. Then at the end wash it with rose water and you will have a very fine and elegant unguent. With that rub carefully in the evening and soon you will cure. This has been done many times.

