Another, a universal remedy for a rash. Take 3 ounces of olive oil, 2 ounces of powdered white lead, 1 ounce of yellow litharge made into fine powder, 2 drams of sublimate in powder, ½ ounce of ground salt and the juice of 2 lemons or sour oranges. Then take a little pot and put therein the oil and the salt and boil them. Put in the litharge, the sublimate and the white lead and let it cook so that it takes on a little body, always stirring. Lift it from the fire and put in the juice of lemons and stir with the spatula until it is cold and it will be made. Save it like a powder for your needs. In the evening rub where you have the rash and especially around the greasy crusts. Do not go to bed at once because they should dry by themselves and they will go away and you will be cured. Take care of yourself. This unguent does not hurt the body at all for any use. It has been tested.

For a rash. Take 3 ounces each of old butter and turpentine and wash them with water of scabiosa 7 or 8 times. Then add 1 ounce of ground salt, 6 ounces of ordinary oil, 1 ½ ounces of ground rock alum and put them in a pot on a slow fire and put in 2 ounces of clean wax and as it begins to thicken, remove it from the fire and put in the juice of lemons or oranges and the yolks of 3 fresh eggs, 4 ounces of rose water and 2 scruples of finely cut camphor and stir with the spatula until it is cold and very well incorporated, because that is important. Then rub only the joints in the evening, one evening yes, the other no, and you will see it works well and will have a good odor.

Ointment for rash.

Take 5 ounces of olive oil and 1 ounce of laurel oil and put them in a little pot on the fire and when it boils put therein 2 ounces of crushed white lead, ½ ounce each of clean wax and rock alum and a pinch of ground salt and boil it until it thickens. Then remove it from the fire and stir until it is cold and put in the juice of 2 lemons and it will be made. In the evening rub the rash throughly and soon you will cure it. This is an easy ointment.

Ointment to remove a rash. Take 1 ½ lb. of white wine, 3 ounces each of white sulfur and incense, 1 ½ ounces of ground salt, 2 ounces of lard and 1 ½ ounces of clean wax. Boil it on a slow fire until it reduces more that one half of the wine and remove it from the fire and add 1 ½ drams of liquid storax and stir until everything is well incorporated and it will be made. Then rub the rash thoroughly and soon you will be cured. Wash yourself and change clothes and you will not have any more sickness. You are cured.

For parturition and against quartan fever.

Take a baby swallow in the nest on a day in March and remove the eyes with a needle or stylet and then bind a thread of silk on one foot. Return it to the nest and let it stay there for 4 days and at the same hour that you removed the eyes, take it and kill it and you will find in the stomach 3 little stones, one red, one white and the third green....

Odorous pills against fever made of wild cucumber and they are laxative.

Take the quantity that you want of wild cucumbers and let them stay piled up together so that they are warmed up. Then grind them and press them on the press. Extract the substance well, filter it and let it stay in a basin in the sun until it becomes firm in the way that one might be able to make a dough of it, in order to make these pills. When you wish to make them, put in a little rose honey and a grain of salt and a little powder of sweet fennel and incorporate these well together. Then form your pills. These are given to evacuate the body vigorously. Give one or 2 or 3 each time but not too much because they have a strong action and take into account the person to whom it is given. If he is robust stop at 3 and not more and you will see a good effect.

To send away chills with fever.

Take 2 scruples of euphorbia and steep it in 1 ounce of brandy. Then take 2 ounces of wormwood juice and incorporate these together. Give 1 ½ ounces to the patient to drink two hours before the chills and fever may come and the chills will not come. Then give one of the pills above and no more sickness will come, through God's grace.

Perfect poultice for pain of the body.

Take ½ glass of boiled wine and 2 egg yolks and 1 handful of wheat bran, 1 handful of the flowers of camomile from those lees that stay in the flasks of oil of camomile, 2 ounces of old chicken fat and 2 scruples of powdered saffron. Put all these things in a pan and incorporate them together on a slow fire. Then, as warm as one can bear, put it on the body of the sufferer and as it cools rewarm it and replace it on the body. Do this several times and soon the pain will lift so it will not be felt any more.

Another for pain of the body. Take the juice of centaury and give it to the patient to drink. Alternatively, give wine in which this herb has been boiled. This herb mitigates pain of the body.

Note that if the juice of this herb is given to drink to one who may have blood polluted from a blow or by a fall or bruising or in any other way whatever, he may soon be cured.

Another for pain of the body. In the month of May take 1 handful of spearmint, that is Roman mint, and put it in an ampule with ordinary oil and put therein 1 ounce each of powdered cinnamon and mastic. Cover it and leave it in the sun for one month or more and keep it for your needs. When you want to use it, make it very warm and rub the body and put on warm clothes and soon it will remove the pain of the body so that you will not feel it any more.

Another for constipation. Take the herb cinquefoil, that is potentilla, crush it and extract juice and then incorporate it with the same amount of good white wine. Drink this warm in the morning before eating and soon you will be cured of the constipation.

Salve to cause a bowel movement by anointing the umbilicus.

Take 2 or 3 gall bladders from oxen and distill them in a glass still on a slow fire. First will come out water which is good only to wash sores. Then will come out oil which you set aside. Take a little brandy and put in a little colocynth and let it infuse for 3 days in a row, well covered. Add this brandy to the oil made above in the amount that you want. Cover the ampule well and keep it thus for 3 days and each day shake it upside down so that the brandy is well incorporated because it is very hard to incorporate. Then boil this ampule on the bain marie very slowly for a quarter or a third of an hour and keep it covered so that it does not lose steam because the effectiveness would disappear. Remove it and save it for your needs. When you wish to use it, make it very warm and rub your umbilicus with it and put thereon a walnut shell so that the nightshirt does not touch the umbilicus and in a short time you will see it work well to evacuate the body without harm. Keep this for a simple and valuable secret which has been tested.

Another for one who may be constipated, to cause a movement. Take a half shell of walnut and fill it with butter. In the evening when you go to sleep, bind it on the belly button and leave it there all night and in the morning you will have a bowel movement. Remove it and do not leave it on for it will make you go too much. This is a useful secret.

Another ointment to rub the umbilicus to cause a bowel movement. Take some young canes of elder wood. Scrape away the outer bark lightly and take the inner bark.....

Cut it, grind it and extract juice with force in the press. Put the juice in one or more stems of hollow reed and close the ends well with cork so that no water can enter. Then boil them in a pot of water for at least an hour and a half or more. Remove the tubes from the water and when they are cold you will find the juice completely congealed in the form of an unguent as long as the water did not enter the tubes. When you want to use it, heat it in an egg shell and rub around the belly button very well and put on a warm cloth. Soon you will have a bowel movement. By rubbing repeatedly, as said above, it softens your constipation and removes that swelling. I have done this many times and it has brought me honor many times.

Laxative of tartar and other kinds to relieve constipation.

Take some tartar from white wine and grind it very finely. Then wash it with a warm decoction of Mercury's herb 4 or 5 times so it is reduced at least in half. Drain it well and put it in a clean pot and put therein 2 parts of beet juice and one part of honey and boil it very slowly until it becomes in the form of an electuary. Remove it from the fire and save it for your needs. Give the patient one spoonful of it early in the morning and it will have a wonderful effect.

Another to cause a bowel movement, a tested laxative. Take the cores from the soft tips of danewort, the wild elder that grows on the edge of ditches, and eat it in any way you wish and soon it will cause a bowel movement. Likewise take some of its seeds when they are fully mature and dry them and make them into very fine powder and give it to drink in broth or wine and soon there will be a bowel movement.

Another laxative. Take the root of the white lily, cut it, grind it and extract juice with the press and take 3 ounces each of the juice of spurge and savory and put everything together to boil. Put in about as much cleaned honey and make it boil slowly until it becomes in the form of an electuary. Then give the patient ½ ounce per dose and it will do much good.

