Another powder that causes a bowel movement. Take 2 ounces each of turbith, autumn crocus, tarragon, cubebs, buckthorn, cloves, fine sugar and ginger. Make fine powder of everything and put it together and save this. One takes a spoonful of it in broth or wine and soon it clears up the body.

Another for flatulence in the body, a rapid remedy. Take 1 ounce of spotted cumin and eat it. Next drink half a glass of good malvasia and stay in repose and in less than ½ hour you will feel no more pain in the body and soon you will urinate. It is tested.

Additional laxatives to relieve constipation.

Take 4 large, dry figs, 6 jujubes, one spoonful of honey and as much yeast as a walnut. Put all these things into a large pot full of water and put it before the fire to boil so it reduces a little less than one half. Then when it is cold, strain it and save it for your needs. Early in the morning take one half glass of it in the form of a syrup and it will do you very good service.

Again, take as much white soap as one fava bean and boil it in an ampule with ½ glass of good white wine and give it to the patient to drink and he will be cured well.

Other varieties of laxatives. Take spurge and boil it in strong vinegar. Then let the vapors escape and it will be made. Take 8 to 10 drops of the boiled liquid and ½ ounce of rose honey and combine them in the form of a syrup and drink it. You will see a good effect on constipation.

Again, take some broth from cabbage that has been well cooked so that the substance remains in the broth. Then take one half a spoonful of tartar from white wine, made into very fine powder, with this broth in the form of a syrup in the morning and it will make you go 3 or 4 times from the body, gently and without distress.

Again, take Mercury's plant and boil it with water and oil together and drink a bowl of this boiled liquid and soon it will put your body in order.

Another laxative. Take 2 ounces of flowers of cassia, 3 ounces of red sugar, 1 ounce of mucharo roxato , ½ ounce of laxative preparation of prunes and mix everything together in the form of an electuary. Take a dose early in the morning and it will greatly refresh the intestine and you will go easily without any distress.

Again, take 4 drams of violet sugar and 1 dram of the laxative preparation of prunes and mix them together and give ½ ounce of it in the morning and it will have the desired result.

