Another laxative. Take 1 ounce of cassia obtained in canes, 1 ounce of mucharo roxato , one ounce of violet syrup and a drop of rose water and mix them in the form of a syrup. Take it early in the morning but do not go out too much at the time. It will give you a good result, I am not worried about that.

Another wonderful laxative. Take 1½ drams of the prune preparation, 6 drams of cassia flowers, ½ ounce of barley sugar, ½ scruple of scammony, 1 ounce of musk roses and incorporate everything well together. Then take the regular dose as usual and you will see a wonderful effect. It is tested.

Another for one who is constipated. Take some betony and cook it in water and drink this water warm and soon it will cure.

Another powder that relieves constipation. Take 1 ounce of senna leaves, 2 drams of cinnamon, 7 drams of cloves, 6 drams of tartar, 5 ounces of scammony and make very fine powder of everything and put them together. In the morning take 1 ½ drams in broth in the form of a syrup. It will make you go and it will cleanse the phlegm from the stomach.

Again, take 2 drams each of the small and flat roots of turbith, ginger and cultivated bishop's weed and 2 ounces of white sugar and make powder. A 1 dram dose of this is equal to 4 of the other powder. It has great efficacy, especially for those who suffer the distress of weak nerves.

Enema to cause a bowel movement.

Take 2 ounces each of fennel, anise, fenugreek, rue, camomile, dill and centaury and 2 drams of colocynth and boil all these things in good white wine and when they are well cooked, put them in a canvas cloth and press them under the press. Take that substance and put therein 3 ounces each of oil of camomile, of dill and of rue. Then make your enema, taking as much of this material as is needed and you will see it cures very well and it will help you.

Another enema. Take 1 handful each of honeysuckle, mountain mint and nettle and enough white wine and make it boil until it reduces one third. Then make an enema of this boiled liquid in the usual way and it will help you greatly.

Another enema for excessive flatulence. Take the usual decoction to make an enema, that is 1 handful of beet, mallow, sweet violet and Mercury's herb. When it is well cooked, strain it with care and return it to the fire and put in fennel, pepper and saffron at your discretion. Then restrain it through a linen cloth and take a portion and put it in another pot and put in a pinch of ground salt and a yolk of an egg, beaten in a bowl with some of the decoction. Empty it into the pot and add ½ glass of olive oil. Give this, tepid, to the patient, as you know how to do. As soon as you have made the sick one take it, put the feet up and raise them a little so that the enema can work better. It lifts the distress rapidly.

Laxative unguent that causes vomiting and defecation.

Take white and black hellebore, autumn crocus and the roots of henbane, each the same amount. Cut them and grind them finely. Then incorporate them with old lard from a male pig. Boil it on a slow fire until it becomes like an unguent. After it boils, strain it under the press so that all the substance comes out and it will be made. Save it for your needs. When you wish to cause a bowel movement, rub only the soles of the feet and soon you will have a bowel movement with violence and haste. If one wants to evacuate the stomach by vomiting, smear the palms of the hands and soon you will have a beneficial effect. Note that when you wish to stop its action, either above or below, rub the part described above with the poppuleon unguent and soon the action will be stopped. This has been tested.

To reduce flux of any kind from the body.

Take some acorn caps from the oak and grind them and make very fine powder. Give half a spoonful of it to the sick one early in the morning in the form of a syrup with red wine or with water distilled without anything added. He should repose for a while. Do this for 3 mornings and, through God's grace, soon he will be freed.

Another unguent which causes a bowel movement when put on the navel and causes vomiting when rubbed on the stomach. Take 1 ounce each of powdered aloe and turpentine and enough ox bile to knead them together and make an unguent of this and rub it on as described above and it will have its effect and quickly.

Pills of aloe to evacuate the body.

Take aloe with the infusion of rhubarb and make pills of it. Take them at your pleasure, especially when you need them and take 1, 2 or 3 of them in the evening according to how you feel because they are not harmful. Also they have this property: by easing the stomach the pills relieve headache, make the body work easily, benefit the vision, reduce swellings in the intestinal parts, purify the lungs and even have many other good effects that I do not write here.

Another for pills to evacuate. Take ½ dram of juniper gum, 2 drams of autumn crocus, 5 drams each of colocynth and scammony, 1 dram of rock salt with rose honey and make paste for pills. Take one of them a week and walk and then do not eat for 5 hours. This paste keeps a year. It will make you go from the body and helps you for that day.

Another medicine for purging the bowel. Take 2 drams of rhubarb, pulverize it and confect it with 2 drams of rose syrup and 4 drams of decoction of polypody fern. Take it in the morning with a little rose water and it will make you go so that you will be cleaned out. Take it by mouth.

Beverage for distress of the body from having retained urine.

Take some roots of couch grass of the white kind, wash them and cook them well and press them under the press. Drink 6 ounces of this boiled liquid in the form of a syrup. Do this 3 or 4 times in the day when you expect the pains to come or as soon as they have come and they will go away rapidly and you will urinate considerably. This beverage also helps greatly to break stones in the kidney and in the bladder. It has been tested.

