Another for simple diarrhea. Viz., take leaves of rosemary and boil them in very strong vinegar and make a plaster of it on a cloth on the body as warm as you can bear. Soon you will be cured. It is tested.

For destroying worms.

Write on the toenail of the child these characters, J.O.B. First you should say the Pater Noster in the right ear of the sick person and then you should say, 'Saint Job had worms and then did not have them. They died through the intercession of our Lord, Jesus Christ. Father, Son and Holy Spirit. So be it. + + +.'

Another also powerful not only for humans but also for animals. Viz., take a pail or vessel full of water and make three signs of the cross + + + over it, saying 'May this be consecrated in the name of the Father + and Son + and Holy Spirit, + Amen.' Then take a little knife with a white handle and make the sign of the cross + with the handle over the water, saying, 'In the name of the Father + and Son + and Holy Spirit, + Amen, I exorcise this water through the Father and Son and Holy Spirit, Amen, and by the living God, by the true God, by the only God, by the patriarchs, by the prophets, by the angels, by the archangels, by his dominion, by his supremacy, by his power, by the four evangelists, Matthew, Mark, Luke and John, by the 24 elders who daily praise God and by the 144,000 innocents and by the most blessed Holy Mary, mother of our Lord, Jesus Christ, and by all the saints of God, so whichever man or woman or horse may have worms and may drink this water, quickly will be freed and the worms will degenerate and die.' You should say 3 Pater Noster with 3 Ave Maria with the words which follow which should also be said three times, 'In the name of the Father and Son and Holy Spirit, Amen. Job, Job, Job had worms and they died and he was freed, thanks to God, thanks to God, thanks to God. As he was truly liberated so this man or woman or horse will be freed from worms. Amen. So be it. Agios.' Give him this water to drink and keep this blessed water always in your house to use it for these purposes.

