Another for sickness from worms. Take 1 lb. of old olive oil, 4 ounces of ginger root, 3 ounces of peach kernels and 1 ounce of juniper berries. Grind everything and make very fine powder. Put everything in the oil and boil it on a slow fire until it reduces in half and becomes like an unguent. Incorporate it well with a stirrer and let it cool. Save it in a clean place. The older it is, the better to treat your needs and the needs of others. When you treat with it rub only the wrists, the hollow of the throat and the navel and do this rubbing 2 or 3 times in a few hours and soon you will be cured by the action of this medicine. Much has been said of how well it works.

Another to cure sickness from worms very quickly. Take 4 or 5 cloves of garlic and bruise them in a bowl and put in a little strong vinegar and mix it well. Then rub the wrists, rubbing them well, and especially the body, and as you have finished one time, begin to rub hard one more time and do this 2 or 3 times and at the end of ½ hour you will be cured and little by little you will feel better. Then rub with the ointment that you have made above and, through God's grace, there will be no more of this sickness.

Another, a bandage for little children when such children are upset because their movements are bothered by pain from the worms. At once take some peach leaves and put them on the body where they are needed and wrap on the leaves and soon the child will be soothed and without distress.

Another one for everyone, large and small. Take 1 handful each of peach leaves and well-washed roots of white couch grass and boil them to reduce in half. Strain and press them under the press. Give the patient as much of this decoction to drink as he can drink. The more he drinks, the sooner he may be cured. Also you can give patients water distilled from peach, couch grass and holy thistle, as much of it as one can drink because by drinking all this water, it is as if it makes the worms burst and they are all defecated as water. The child may soon be cured, by the grace of God and Saint Job.

Another for worms. Take 1 dram each of saffron, aloe, cloves and incense and 1 ounce of laurel oil. Then take a sour orange and make a hollow in half of it by removing the center. Then put in all the above things made into fine powder, but do not put in the oil. Put the orange on the warm ashes. Then put in the oil mixed with the juice of one orange and let it cook on the ashes. Rub the child with this ointment, rubbing the wrists, the temples, the navel, the fontanelle of the stomach and the nose and soon you will see it work well. All the worms will go out from below and you have succeeded.

To cure worms rapidly. Say, “Fever and worms which are in this body, as Jesus Christ said on the Cross, 'It is finished,' in the name of the Father and Son and Holy Spirit +, Amen.” Say it 3 times in the morning for 3 days and hold your hands in a cross on the body and, through God's grace, soon the person will be cured. It has been tested.

Confection against worms for adults and children.

