Another for worms. Say, “Fever and worms that may be in this head, in this chest and in this body, you are finished, as Christ at the end on the wood of the holy cross said, 'It is finished.' ” Say it 3 times in the ear of the sufferer and you will cure rapidly. Carry it with you. It has been tested.

Another medicine against worms. Take 1 lb. of ordinary oil, 8 to 10 cloves of garlic ground between 2 stones and 1 handful each of leaves of peach and of absinth, ½ a handful of goat's rue and 2 or 3 nails that are rusty and put them in 2 ounces of white wine and put everything in the oil and boil it until it appears that all the wine has been dissipated. If you want to know when this is ready, put a drop of it on a hot grill and if it sizzles, the wine is not used up. When it is finished remove it from the fire and strain it at once and press the herbs on the press and when it is still warm put in 3 ounces of clean wax and stir with a wooden spatula until it is cold. Save it in a bottle for your needs. When you wish to treat, rub the wrists and the fontanel of the stomach and it will cure.

Prayer against worms for every person.

First say and have the patient say 3 Pater Noster with 3 Ave Maria. Then say these 3 verses in the left ear of the patient and attach them around the neck, viz., 'Increate Father, + Increate Son, + Increate Holy Spirit, + Infinite Father, + Infinite Son, + Infinite Holy Spirit, + Eternal Father, + Eternal Son, + Eternal Holy Spirit, + in the name of the Father, Son and Holy Spirit, Amen + + + .'

Another prayer against worms for everyone. Say and have the patient say 5 Pater Noster with 5 Ave Maria. Then say these words in the right ear and also in the left, viz., “Night and Day were walking on the road and they met Jesus Christ, the little son of the Virgin Mary, and he said to them, 'Where are you going, Night and Day?' They said, 'Lord, we are going to the mountain to find the herb to kill worms.' Christ said to them, 'Go to my house, Night and Day, and you can say that you have found Jesus Christ, Son of the Virgin Mary and soon you will be cured.' + In the name of the Father + Son + and Holy Spirit. + Amen, + + + .”

Another to cure worms. Put your 2 forefingers on the forehead of the patient in a cross and do this 3 times early in the morning with 3 signs of the cross. Then say these holy words, viz., 'Christ made Job. Job had worms and through the grace of Jesus Christ, Job killed the worms. + Father, Son and Holy Spirit, Amen.' Then say three....

Pater Noster with 3 Ave Maria in reverence to God and the Holy Trinity. Attach this amulet around the neck with a thread twisted by a virgin young girl on which is written the following prayer, and when you attach it to the neck of the patient, say and have the patient say 3 Pater Noster with the Ave Maria in reverence to God and Saint Job and Saint Honoffry. This is the holy prayer, vz., '+ Power of the Father, + wisdom of the Son, + compassion of the Holy Spirit + free your servant (name) of God + from all illness and worms and convert them into water, to the honor of the blessed Job and Saint Honoffry, martyrs of God, in the name of the Father + Son + and Holy Spirit +, Amen.'

