Another against painful colics. Take 2 handfuls of elder flowers, 1 ounce of sweet flag, 3 ounces each of pulverized peach kernels and cherry stones, 2 ounces of pulverized medlar stones, 1 ounce of mullein root and 6 lb. of table wine or malvasia. Put all together in a well-stoppered glass vessel for 3 days. Then distill it and save this distillation for your needs. Give the patient 2 or 3 ounces at a time in the form of a warm syrup and soon he will be cured. This was proved in a gentleman who was given up for lost.

Another against painful colics. When you are at mass, when the body of Christ is lifted, say 'Pure host and holy body, Lord Jesus Christ, free me from the pain of my side.' When the blood is lifted, say 'O worthy body, O holy blood, Lord Jesus Christ, free me from the sickness in my side.' At the end say one Pater Noster and soon you will be cured.

Another against painful colics. Take some of Job's tears planted this year, break them up and extract the good, dry it and make fine powder of it. Give one spoonful of it to the patient to drink with ½ glass of good warm wine and soon the pain will stop. It is tested.

Another for these illnesses of the side. Take galbanum gum and make a round plaster of it and put thereon powdered cloves and heat it well and put it on the navel and do not move it but let it detach itself from its place and you will see a good effect. It is tested.

Another. Elder flowers given to drink with warm wine help the pain in the side greatly. Do this several times and soon it will be cured. It has been tested.

Another against pain in the sides. Take 6 ounces of water distilled from elder flowers and put in 2 ounces of ground sugar, heat it and give it to the patient to drink as soon as he feels the illness. At the end of one hour he will begin to improve. This was tested by a bishop who was on a journey and in the morning he rode without impediment.

Another for this pain in the sides. Take some milk vetch and boil it well. Then make an enema of this decoction and soon the pain will cease.

Another for this sickness of the sides. Take 4 drams each of melon seeds, squash seeds and ground pine and 3 drams each of spices for an electuary, theriac and sandalwood, 3 ½ drams each of anise and asparagus seed, 1 ½ lb. of fine sugar and 1 dram of cinnamon and make an electuary of it in the usual way. Take it early in the morning and you will see the good result that the pain will soon lift and you will be cured.

