Take 1 lb. each of water of asparagus, of sea holly and flowers of elder and of pellitory and roots of parsley and of fresh lemon. Then take a full basin of kernels of peach stones and as many kernels of cherry stones and grind them very well together. Put them to soak in a pot full of malvasia or good white wine for 2 days in a row. Then put everything together and distill it in a glass still on a slow fire or on the bain marie. Leave it, well-stoppered, in the sun for at least 20 days and it will be made. Put it away for your needs. When you feel pain or ache from the stone, take 2 ounces or even 3 if needed, with ½ ounce of sugar and take it warm. Do this 2 or 3 times in the space of 2 hours and, through God's grace, soon you will be cured. It is tested and true.

Another for pain of colic. Take the head of a wether and boil it with enough water until it reduces nearly in half and boil it with these herbs: 1 handful each of camomile, dill and sweet clover, 2 ounces of fenugreek and ½ ounce each of coriander, anise and cumin. Then remove it from the fire and wet a sponge in this boiling liquid and, as warm as one can stand, put it on the afflicted part and as it cools, rewarm it and soon the pain will leave. Also with this decoction you can make a remedy with one ounce each of oil of camomile, of dill and diafinicon and you will see a wonderful result, because this has been tested. Also you can make it with pure good wine and it will cure rapidly.

Another. A decoction and powder for pain in the sides caused by stone or gravel. Viz., take a pot with 4 bowls of rain water or water from the cistern and put in the following things, viz., take one bowl of chick peas, 1 handful each of roots of parsley, of marsh mallow, of mallow, of nettle and of pellitory that are well washed and clean. Cook them well and boil until it reduces in half. Then strain it and keep it in a clean vessel, covered, to use for your needs. Then make this powder: take the sponge-gall that grows on the branches of the wild rose that is called the bedeguar gall. They should be well matured so they have worms inside. Dry them and make fine powder and again take kernels of peach stones and medlar stones and bark of the long kind of hazel nut and make very fine powder. Then take 3 drams of the powder of the bedeguar gall and 2 drams of powdered cinnamon and 1 dram each of medlar and hazel nut. Take a bowl of the decoction described above and put in a spoonful of oil and incorporate this well with the powder. Early in the morning take it in the form of a syrup and do not go to sleep and soon, through God's grace, the pain will cease and you will urinate much gravel. This has been tested. If you do not have some of the above decoction, take some broth of red chick peas or other appropriate broth and add this powder or use warm good white wine and stay in repose and keep warm.

Another for pain in the side. It also helps in pain of stone and pain in pregnancy. Take some crayfish from the river and from springs when they change their eyes or their exoskeleton and dry them in the oven after the bread is removed or in a covered baking pan on the fire until you can grind them and make very fine powder of them. Then in the evening when you go to sleep, take a spoonful of it in good, warm white wine, 6 to 8 times and you will see a good effect on the pain of the sides from stone and in the pain of pregnancy. This is very true.

Another for pain in the side and pain from stone. Take 2 ounces each of roots of dragon root made into juice and good white wine and 8 cloves made into fine powder and incorporate these and warm it and give it to the patient early in the morning. Do this for 4 or 5 mornings and it will help greatly and rapidly in pain in the side and pain from stone.

To cause retention of urine for one who suffers from flow.

Take pomegranate rind and boil it in water and give that to the patient to drink. Then dry the rind and make very fine powder or instead roast the rind and make fine powder. In the evening when he goes to sleep, give the patient one spoonful to drink in a glass of the boiled liquid or wine. It should be very warm. Do it several times and he will not urinate as much. It is tested.

Soft tips of oak boiled with red wine, ground and put several times in the form of a warm plaster on the pubic region keeps the urine from coming out.

Another to cause retention of urine. Take the insides of the scaly skins of the leg of the chicken and wash them with vinegar and string them on a thread and dry them in the shade and make them into fine powder. In the evening when the patient goes to bed, give ½ spoonful of the powder with the above-described boiled liquid or with wine or warm broth and soon the urine will be retained. Tested.

Another to cause retention of urine in one who cannot. Take 4 ounces each of roots of wild elder and betony, fennel and horehound and 1 ½ drams of mullein flowers, 2 drams of white roses and 6 ounces of cleaned honey. Put everything in a pot and boil it very slowly on a slow fire and add 3 jugs of ordinary water and boil it until only one jug remains and not more. Then strain it and press the herbs very well, extracting the substance and save that for your needs. Give 5 ounces of it to the patient to drink 2 hours before daybreak each time for 4 mornings in a row. In the evening of the same days, rub the area of the kidneys with unguent of sandlewood. Then give 1 dram of finely-powdered rusty fern, that is erba dorata , to drink in distilled water, with 2 ounces each of water distilled from over-ripe jujubes and water distilled from the head of a goat and these should be tepid. Continue this drink until you are cured or nearly. By continuing this, through God's grace, you will be cured. This is a rare and great secret. This malady, where the urine is not retained, comes from dislocation of the neck of the bladder and the anatomy of this has been studied and it is all seen very clearly.

Another who urinates during sleep in the bed. Take some goat hoofs and ox hoofs. Dry them and make very fine powder. Then take 1 dram of each, and 1 ½ drams each of acorn caps, myrtle and shepherd's purse all made into fine powder, and put these powders together and give them to the patient to drink with very warm broth or red wine, one glass each time in the evening when he goes to sleep. Do it several times and keep the stomach warm. By continuing this, through God's grace, soon you will cure so that he will not urinate in bed. It It is effective even for one who may be a hermaphrodite, that is a man who may include the genitalia of a woman or a woman those of the man, being created that way by nature. This secret has been tested by many and has helped, through God's grace, many who are cured completely and others who are helped considerably.

Another for one who urinates in bed and does not feel it. Take 1 ounce of nettle seeds made into very fine powder and ½ ounce of powdered mastic and put them together and take some dough as large as a fist and knead therein these powders. Then form it into a loaf and cook it in the oven. Then divide it into 3 parts and each morning take one part for 15 days in a row and, through God's grace, you will regain health.

Another for one who may urinate too much through coldness of the kidney or may not be able to retain urine. Take a quantity of bladders of fish from the river, a bladder from a sow, a bladder from a wild boar and half a lung from a kid. Dry everything and make them into very fine powder together. Then take a little galingale and galbanum gum, each the same amount, and carefully make them into fine powder and incorporate everything together. Then in the evening when the patient goes to sleep, he takes one spoonful of it in broth, wine or water and it should be tepid. Do this when the moon is in the first quarter and in a few days the meatus for the urine will be reduced so that one will not urinate too much. This has been verified.

For those who urinate in bed. Take some of those flowers that remain on the plant all winter and pulverize them finely and give them to drink as you wish and one will not urinate again in bed. Water of pine nutsdistilled when green will help hold urine wonderfully.

For one who urinates blood, either man or woman.

