Take some purslane, as much as you wish, and boil it in water until it is well cooked. Then strain it and press it very well so that you extract the substance. Take 5 ounces in a glass and put therein a spoonful of powder of yarrow dried in the shade and a spoonful of juice made from climbing ivy. Mix these well together and heat it and give it to the patient to drink early in the morning. Continue this drink until the blood begins to stop and at once stop. Do not take more because this much will soon cure, with the aid of God.

Again take the horn of deer made into very fine powder and give it to the patient to drink with 1 ounce of mother's milk early in the morning and soon he will be cured. It is tested.

Another to cure rapidly one who urinates blood. Take some fresh betony and eat it and also make very fine powder of it and take a spoonful early in the morning with red wine in the form of a syrup for 15 days and, through God's grace, you will be cured rapidly.

Another for one who urinates blood. Take maiden hair fern, grind it and make fine powder and put half a spoonful of it in a fresh egg to drink. Drink this for 3 or 4 mornings and soon it will help you greatly.

Also take the whites of 2 eggs, well beaten, in a bowl. Incorporate 1 scruple of camphor and make a cotton stupe and soak it in the bowl and put it all across the loins. Do this in the evening when you go to sleep at least for 4 evenings in a row and soon it will be cured. Take care of yourself.

Another for one who urinates blood. Take rosemary, grind it and extract the juice and place it in a glass vessel and in the morning give the patient 2 ounces of it to drink with 1 ounce of pomegranate wine, fairly warm, for several mornings and soon the urine will change color so there is no more blood. You should know that these secrets are from several persons and have been tested in many persons, but the amount needs to be adjusted, as for all medicines.

Another for one who urinates blood. Take 1 ounce each of mallow, olive leaves, celandine, roses, sweet violets, willow leaves, sage, barley, betony, pomegranate rind, scabiosa, plantain and bugloss, 3 drams each of saffron and hepatic aloe, 4 ounces of raw honey and sufficient white vinegar and put everything together in a little pot and boil it a little. Then put some of this boiled liquid in a one pint pitcher and warm it sufficiently and put it into the penis or keep bathing it repeatedly. Soon you will be cured of urinating blood.

For pain of the kidney, to cure it rapidly.

Take the whites of 2 fresh eggs, 1 ounce of plantain juice, ½ ounce each of oil of violets, oil of water lily and rose unguent and 2 scruples of finely-cut camphor and incorporate everything together very well. Rub the kidneys very well with this unguent in the evening and in the morning and soon the pain will cease. This is a tested remedy and it acts in a few days.

Another for one who cannot urinate and who has pain in the kidneys. Take golden rod and make very fine powder of it and give one tablespoon of it in a fresh egg to drink early in the morning. The patient should stay in repose at least 2 or 3 hours and soon it will cause urination and the pain of the kidneys will cease. Continue it for 12 days and soon you will cure.

Another for pain in the side. Take 6 drams of liquid storax, 5 drams each of chicken fat, goose fat and duck fat, 4 drams of rose oil, 2 ½ drams of red wax and 1 dram of butter. Liquify the fat, the oil and the butter together. Then strain them so thay are well incorporated and put in the storax and it will be made. Spread it on a cloth and put it on the pubic region and soon you will urinate.

For one who urinates blood from the penis. Take cinquefoil with the roots, well cleaned, and put it in a little pot with very good light red wine and boil it for one hour. Stopper it well around when you put it in the pot. Then strain it carefully and in this wine put a little brandy and give 1 ounce of it, warm, to the patient to drink in the morning and evening for 4 to 6 days and soon you will cure.

Another. If a sick person urinates without knowing it and and wants to restrain this, put into the decoction above some powdered acorns and have him drink it in the evening.

Most excellent and rapidly-acting secrets for one who cannot urinate.

Take some of those little animals that are called porcelets or sow bugs that roll up in a circle like a rosary and stay in the moisture under bricks. Take an amount that are clean and put them between two pans and dry them in the oven after the bread is removed. Grind them and make very fine powder and save it for your needs. Then give the patient a spoonful of it to drink with broth or wine and also with 3 ounces each of water distilled from pellitory and celandine with 1 ounce of ground sugar. Give it warm in the form of a syrup. Then make the patient draw near to the fire so that the warmth feels good and soon the desire to urinate will come and he will urinate. This medicine is most appropriate for one who has not been able to urinate for a day or more and where the urine has been going between flesh and skin and for one who may be turning yellow and swollen from not being able to urinate. Whether it is a man or a woman, soon either will be freed, through God's grace. This has been tested many times by men worthy of belief.

Also give repeatedly to drink 3 ounces each of tepid water distilled from pellitory and celandine with sugar in it and soon the patient will urinate. Also put on the pubic region a sachet with some warm ashes in it and you will provoke urine rapidly and the patient will urinate at his pleasure.

Another for one who is not able to urinate. Take some roots of reed, of broad beans and of asparagus, each the same amount, wash them well, cut them and distill them in a glass still. Then give a glass of it with ½ ounce of fine sugar to the patient to drink early in the morning in the form of a syrup and as much again when he goes to bed. He will soon urinate with much gravel.

Another. Take a radish or a white radish and grate it and put this, very fresh, on the pubic region and soon it will provoke urine. First take some warm and suitable beverage by mouth and you will urinate abundantly and you will urinate much gravel.

Another to cause urination freely. Take 1 handful each of celery seed, endive seed and fresh anise seed and crush all these seeds, not too finely, and make 2 small bags with an amount the size of the hand and have a clean pot with good malvasia or the best white wine in it. Put it on the fire to boil until it is ready. Then put in one of these little bags and immediately remove the pot from the fire. Take out the sack and press it well and put this very warm on the pubic region but first shave the region and rub it with equal amounts of warm sweet almond oil and scorpion oil. Then put on the warm sack and when it is cold, remove it and put on the other from the wine that should be very warm, always rubbing first with the warm oils. Keep putting on one after the other and do not let the flesh chill. By doing this good remedy, at the end of 2 hours one will urinate as much as one wishes. Know that this is a rare secret to cause urination.

Another to cause urination in a large amount and also a lot of gravel. Take one large, fat young cockerel, clean it well and carefully and put it in a large cooking pot with water enough so there is no need to add any more and cook it well so the bones detach from the flesh and leave it there. Then put in, to boil together, 1 handful each of roots of celery, of parsley, of mallow, of marsh mallow and of sweet fennel and boil until they are well cooked in the broth. Strain it finely and keep it in a cool place and every morning, as long as it lasts, drink a cup with ½ ounce of finely-ground sugar. First put a little sack full of warm ashes on the pubic region and soon it will make you urinate and with much gravel. If you may be undergoing the pain of stone, by continuing this beverage, it will soon break up the stone and you will urinate it little by little, through the virtue of these herbs and roots.

For one who urinates with difficulty.

