Also, make the kernels of cherry stones into fine powder and give ½ ounce of this warm to the patient to drink in a glass of good white wine. Do it several times and soon he will urinate.

Another for one who is not able to urinate. Take the hard gallstone that is in the gall of the old ox and dry it and make powder of it. Also make powder of the shells of the wild hazel nut and take as much of one as the other and give the patient who is not able to urinate this to drink with 1 ounce each of water of pellitory, of asparagus, hound's tongue and hops. Give it warm with sugar.

For one who is not able to urinate, be it man or woman.

Take 2 handfuls of the herb chervil and 2 ounces of crushed licorice and boil it in a clean pot, covered, with 8 lb. of water of hops until it reduces 1/3. Then remove it from the fire and strain it and save it carefully. Give the patient one good glass of this water to drink with a little sugar in it and it should be warm. Put the warm chervil in the form of a plaster on the pubis and across to the penis. Also give another glass of this warm water to drink. The more of it he drinks, the sooner he will urinate freely and with much gravel. This herb is well tested. Continue this for 3 days in a row and reheat the plaster at least 4 or 5 times a day and he should drink enough of this water. Do this more or less according to how you see the need. Do it with confidence that it is tested.

Another to cause urination with ease. Take roots of radish, well minced, and put them in 2 little bags of cloth as large as the hand. Then boil them in very good white wine until it reduces ¼ . Then give one glass of it warm to drink early in the morning to the one who is not able to urinate because of some pain or other infirmity. Then put on the 2 little bags, well pressed and warm, one on the pubis and the other on the rear and replace them frequently to keep them warm and it will make him urinate very, very much. This is tested and helps also with gravel.

Another to cause urination rapidly. Take olive oil and warm it so that you can hold the relaxed penis in it and as it cools down, rewarm it and soon the desire to urinate will come and this will help you greatly and rapidly. Also in this illness it is a great help to drink some warm juice of betony with some sugar in it. It breaks the stone and little by little you will urinate the gravel and soon, with God's grace, you will be cured.

Another to cause urination, very well tested. Take seed of greater burdock, that which is round and attaches itself to clothes, and make very fine powder of it and also take the lining that covers the inside of the gizzard of the chicken, wash it carefully and dry it in the shade, and make very fine powder of it. Early in the morning take ½ spoonful of each with a little sugar early in warm good white wine or broth. Do this 4 or 5 times and stay warm and soon you will urinate well. Tested.

Another to cause urination. Take a handful of the herb called pellitory and cook it very well in water. Remove it and press it. Then wet this herb with juice made of mallow and put on 2 scruples of ground cinnamon. Put this plaster, very warm, on the pubis of the patient who should stay in repose and let it stay on as long as you can. If the urine does not come, rewarm it and he will urinate.

For one who is not able to urinate. Take some nettles and make very fine powder. Then take ¼ ounce of it in a glass of wine and boil it a little before the fire and let it cool a little. Give it to the patient to drink on an empty stomach. Do this in the evening when he goes to sleep and take 2 or 3 leaves of bear's claw, warm them and put them on the pubis and tie them on and let them remain all night. In the morning remove them and soon, through God's grace, he will urinate.

Another to cause urination. Take 1 handful each of camomile, pellitory on the wall, that is paritaria , and absinthe and 1 ounce each of fenugreek and flax seed and boil everything in white wine. Then put this plaster on the pubis, warm, and do it several times and soon you will urinate enough. Do it and you will be satisfied.

For the burning in the penis during urination.

Take oil of roses and rose water, each the same amount, and the white of a fresh egg and mix them together. In the evening and the morning, rub along the kidneys and put over that a linen cloth. To squirt in the penis take rose water and plantain water, each the same amount, with a little fine sugar and squirt it in the penis with a syringe. If this does not help enough, use some good white wine to squirt in and it will help you and soon you will be cured. Take care of yourself. Eat all things refreshing and do not drink wine. Use barley water and bread broth with melon seeds and stay chaste and soon you will be cured. It has been tested.

