Again, one finds some men who have narrowing of the opening of the penis and who, almost without any other infirmity, are having difficulty in urination. One of these was guided into my hands. This was his cure and it was the best and worked for him. In the month of May, I took some roots from beets germinated one or two months earlier and growing in rich soil. I took the longer of these roots, not too thick but slender, being smooth without other little roots around. I washed and cleaned these carefully, wrapped them up straight in a sheet of white parchment and left them to dry in the shade. When they were dry, they were polished and smooth. Then I took one of these roots and smeared it with honey and put it into the tip of the penis until it was into the penis for 4 fingers' depth with a thread hanging out right in the flap of the breeches. When the desire to urinate came, he drew out this root and urinated a lot and easily. This root was enlarging and keeping the opening of the penis large. Then another root smeared with honey was put in again. The first root was washed and cleaned carefully and again wound up in parchment, and as it dried it was as good as at first. By keeping on with this method for several days, the opening of the penis was enlarged by the continued practice and he was urinating easily without this treatment. The man always remained obligated to me by this favor that I did for him and I give you this secret from my own hand.

For illness from stone and gravel in the kidneys or in the bladder, to urinate it rapidly.

Take as much chervil as the fresh herb as you wish, grind it and extract juice and let it clear. Give 4 ounces of it to the patient with stone or gravel to drink with a little sugar and it should be warm. Give it in the evening when he goes to sleep and he should eat little, that is lightly. Then cook 1 handful of this herb in water of hops and when it has just begun to boil, remove it from the fire and put it warm in the form of a plaster on the pubic area, fastened on for the night, and in the morning you will see a good effect and it is cleansing. Do this at least 4 to 6 times and be confident that soon he will get better. Make this powder: take some snails without a shell, especially those that stay in fields, and dry them and make very fine powder of them and give 2 drams to the patient when he goes to sleep with 4 ounces of good white wine with sugar in it and it should be tepid. He should take these beverages on alternate evenings so that each evening he takes one beverage. In a few days, through God's grace, he will feel such improvement that he will be able to wake up cured and will urinate freely and without distress because the gravel will be pushed out and the stone will be turned to nothing, that is it will be broken and shattered and be urinated little by little without harming the patient and he will be freed. It has been tested.

Another to break up gravel. Take 2 drams each of water distilled from lemons, from pods of broad beans and from radishes and 2 ½ drams of seeds of climbing ivy picked during the half-moon of January, 1 dram each of seed of fox tail grass, of broom and of gromwell and make very fine powder and incorporate all together and mix these powders with 5 ounces of the above boiled liquid of chervil. Take ½ ounce of this beverage early in the morning in the form of a warm syrup for 15 days and soon, with God's grace, you will feel no more pain from gravel and less from stone and you will urinate freely.

Another for the above-described pain of stone or gravel. Take 2 lb. of the herb saxifrage, 1 lb. each of tansy and parsley, 9 lemons cut finely and 8 lb. of very strong white vinegar and put everything together and distill it in a glass still with a slow fire. Save this water in a glass vessel, well stoppered, for your needs. Give 1 ounce to the patient to drink in the evening and morning, warm, in the form of a syrup. In the evening he should eat little and keep the stomach warm so that it can digest well. When you feel that the stone may bother you in exiting in the urine, take one glass of distilled water of Alexandrine celery, warm with sugar. Know that very soon the pain will lift from you and you will urinate freely. This has been tested.

Another to cure the pain of gravel quickly. Say 3 Pater Noster with 3 Ave Maria and then say these holy words, touching with your hand the kidneys of the patient. These are, “In the name of the Father + Son + and Holy Spirit + Amen. + Jesus. I invoke you, stone, by him who first said, 'I am the stone. + I am dead and wrapped and buried in stone. +' As by his death the stone is broken, + so these stones that are in these kidneys must break and splinter so nothing remains, neither stones nor gravel to give the infirm one more pain +. So be it. + Amen. + Atta .” Repeat these words in the evening and morning and soon you will see a result. Through the grace of God and your good actions he will feel no more pain.

Another to cause urination with much gravel. Take seed of nettle and boil it in oil of camomile and white vinegar until it reduces one third. Then in the evening when you go to bed, make it very warm and rub the pubic area and all the penis and bind it with warm cloths and soon you will urinate a great deal of gravel. This preparation is also effective in women. It will bring you much honor.

To cause a great amount of gravel, and quickly.

Fill a large pot suitable for putting on the fire with very good white wine. Take 2 or 3 radishes and grate them and put them in this wine. Put this in the sun covered for 4 days and each day shake it upside down two times. Then let it rest to clear. Give 3 ounces of this wine to the patient to drink before the meal. By continuing to do this several times, the patient will urinate abundantly with much gravel. This is very, very true.

Another to urinate gravel. Take 6 ounces each of the herb saxifrage, celandine, sage, saxifrage and seed of gromwell, 3 lb. of raw honey and make very fine powder of these herbs and boil them in the honey until it is thickened in the form of an electuary. Then give it to the patient several times and much gravel will come out with smarting of the penis. Then make this plaster to put warm on the pubic area. Take the herb wild panic grass and grind it well with pork lard and incorporate it on a slow fire and put it on warm. Do this several times and soon the patient will urinate much gravel. Have confidence that this has been tested.

