Another to cure the stone that is in the kidney. Take wild mallow and make a decoction of it and blend it with honey and butter and a little mallow seed and winter cherry seed and give it in the form of a syrup to drink warm. It is very powerful to cause urination of much of the gravel that is in the kidney and it will help greatly.

To cause abundant urination with a great quantity of gravel. Take one half bowl of red chick peas and 2 rootlets of mallow, well washed and cut, 2 ounces of raisins, 1 ½ ounces of white sugar and 2 ½ ounces of minced licorice. Put everything together in a large pot on the fire with water of hops and boil it on the fire until it reduces 1/3. Then strain it and save it for your needs. Give 4 ounces to the patient to drink early in the morning in the form of a syrup. Do this for 9 mornings in a row and you will see a wonderful effect. Mix the following poultice to put warm on the pubis. Take 1 handful each of mallow and pellitory and cook them in water and in the evening put it on warm so it stays on for the night and you will see a wonderful effect in causing excretion of gravel.

If by chance the infirmity is chronic, which many times causes loss of function in the loins, the patient may be unable to urinate normally but does not complain of this. Take watercress, mallow and celery and cook it in ordinary water. When it is cooked put it in the rear on the buttocks and it should be warm. Do this in the morning and evening and by continuing it for several days, you will see a wonderful result in urination. Keep all the body warm and soon he will be cured of such infirmity. Many persons have tested this.

Another for gravel and also helps with the stone. Take the skin of a rabbit and the blood of 2 or 3 rabbits and put the blood in the skin and dry everything in the oven when the bread is removed. Then make very fine powder of it and give a spoonful of it to the patient in warm wine or chicken broth early in the morning. By continuing it for several mornings and taking care of himself, the patient will see a good result and will put out a great deal of gravel and the stone will not give him trouble. This is a great secret.

To break the stone in the bladder in several ways.

Take the blood of a fox and its testicles and make this tepid and put it in the opening of the penis and also bathe under the testicles. Do this several times and the stone will be broken. Also give this blood to be drunk or make it into powder with warm white wine. By using these remedies repeatedly, the patient will soon be freed.

Also, smear your fingers with this blood and rub it on the body, that is on the pubis, on the kidneys and under the testicles where the neck of the bladder is. Do all these things in one treatment, that is the beverage, smearing the penis and the other rubbings. Do not live in a disorderly way and do not go out when you do this and very soon you will bring out the broken stone.

Another to break the stone when first found in the bladder. Take 1 lb. each of juice of saxifrage, of tansy, of parsley and of celery and 9 ounces of strong white vinegar and mix these together and distill them in a glass flask on a low fire or on a bain marie and give 4 ounces of it to the patient to drink in the evening and the morning and soon he will urinate the stone.

Another to break stone in the bladder. To make this remedy, first you should kill a hare or leveret by putting it in the oven when the bread is removed. At once throw it in and stop up the mouth and leave it to die in this way by smothering. Then remove it from the oven and draw out only the intestines and nothing else, not blood and not liver. Then put this as it is in a pot or pan of clay with the feet, the head and everything. Cover it and block around the top with cloth and dough so that no air can escape and let it stay in the oven until it is over-cooked and fallen apart, but not burned, so that you are able to make powder, grinding it many times. Put in all that you will grind and reduce it to powder, all the bone, skin and flesh and save this powder in a bag of chamois leather to use as needed.

Then make very fine powder of the seeds of climbing ivy and save this. Also distill some white onions in a glass still and take 4 ounces of this water and put in one spoonful of the first powder of the rabbit and one spoonful of this second part made of seeds of ivy. Warm it and give it to drink in the morning at dawn. The patient should sleep for an hour. Do this for 7 mornings in a row. The patient should stay warm and, with the aid of God, he will urinate much gravel and soon will be free of this distress.

Another to cause urination freely when it has been prevented because of gravel. Take galbanum gum and grind it finely and make fine powder of it and warm it and, using your ingenuity, put it in the opening of the penis and on the prepuce and let it stay on and soon you will urinate. Also take watercress and boil it with good white wine for 2 miserere and put it warm on the pubis in the form of a poultice and when it is cold, rewarm it and soon you will urinate abundantly. It has been tested.

For provoking urination. Take the seeds of broom and dry them and pulverize them finely. Then take a spoonful of it early in the morning with white wine and also take the same amount of warm water of saxifrage. It has been tested.

Another. Take ½ ounce each of seeds of fennel, of anise and of caraway, 1 ½ ounces of gromwell, 2 ounces each of broom, saxifrage, celery, parsley and peony, ½ ounce of cumin seed, 1 dram each of lavender and cinnamon, 3 drams of grated licorice and 1 ½ ounces of white sugar. Make fine powder of these and drink as above.

