Another to cure gravel and to cause urination of it freely. Take 1 ounce each of distilled water of lemons, of red mulberries, of asparagus, of pods of broad beans, of pellitory and of roots of giant reed and ½ ounce of sugar. Warm it and give it to the patient to drink early in the morning. Do this for 6 to 8 mornings and you will see a wonderful urination that will have much gravel with burning of the penis and soon you will cure the patient.

Another, the best and blessed remedy for the illness of gravel. It has been tested. Take the skin and blood of a hare, roast it and dry it and make fine powder of it. Then in the morning take 1/4 ounce with warm good white wine on an empty stomach and it will make you urinate much gravel. This result has been tested by many talented men.

If you would like to test this beverage, put a stone in a bowl and put on some of the wine made up here for drinking. Leave it for one whole day and the next day you will find the stone broken by the power and strength of this rabbit blood. This result has been demonstrated several times.

Another to cure gravel. Take the soil from the nest of a swallow and make it into fine powder. Take mallow and boil it and take a glass of the boiled mallow with a spoonful of this powder. Give it to the patient to drink warm in the morning in the form of a syrup for 5 or 6 mornings and the stone or gravel will be urinated and you will cure him quickly.

Another to cure the stone or gravel. Take1 handful each of the herb saxifrage, asparagus root and the corn poppy that grows in fields, that is the field poppy, and take 3 flasks of ordinary water and boil everything together until it reduces one third. Then strain it carefully and give one glass to the patient to drink with a little sugar in the evening and early in the morning in the form of a syrup and he will feel it have a good effect, causing the urination of a lot of gravel.

If you wish to know a very rare secret, take some blood of a fox or a hare and touch it to the penis and also touch the pubis and soon it will make the stone in the bladder break into very minute pieces and in a little time you will urinate and will feel it come out. This is tested.

Another to break stone in the bladder. Take a living hare, kill it and do it so that not a drop of the blood is lost. Cut it open and remove only the intestines, carefully, so that you do not draw out blood and do not wash it. Cut the hare in pieces and fit it in a clean pot with the cover closed around with dough that does not allow air out and put it in the oven after the bread is baked and leave it in long enough so it will be very dry, so by crushing it you may be able to make very fine powder. Pass it through a sieve and save it for your needs in a leather pouch. When you want to give it to a man or woman, give it warm with 3 ounces each of water of saxifrage and of lemons and a good spoonful of this powder with a little sugar in the evening and early in the morning in the form of a syrup. Do this for 8 to 10 days in a row.

You should live conservatively, do not cohabit with women, drink fresh and unwatered white wines but not too much. Eat some fresh butter before meals and do not get chilled. By continuing these rules with this beverage, you will feel the stone break in the bladder and you will urinate it little by little and sometimes you will feel it when a large piece wishes to come out. In this way you will be cured rapidly.

To break a stone in the bladder.

Take a live fox and a rabbit and cut off their heads and with care collect all their blood. Then put it in a clean pot with a cover and close it up with dough around so it cannot leak any steam and put it in the oven until everything is dried so you can make powder of it, very fine and sifted. Put in the head, all the blood, the feet and the skins and the livers of both. The flesh you can eat. Follow the method described above and care for this powder as if it were a great treasure and more to those who have need of it. If you do not believe it, observe this test. Take a spoonful of this powder and put it in a bowl or clean little pot with wine or water or broth and also vinegar and put in a stone and cover it well and keep it in a warm place for 6 to 8 days and you will find the stone broken in several pieces. In this way you will be satisfied and certain. Then for the person with a problem, take a spoonful of this powder and give a good bowlful of it in warm wine, chicken broth or with lemon water in the form of a syrup early in the morning and also you can give it some times when the patient has eaten only a little in the evening. When he takes it, he should take care of himself and keep all the body warm and in a few days, through God's grace, he will urinate the stone. When he feels the stone, have patience that soon he will be cured. You should know that this has been proved.

If by chance a man may suffer from a serious cough, he should drink this powder in the morning with wine or warm broth and also eat it on his food. He should stay warm and soon he will be cured and will not cough any more. You should know that this water has great ability to break the stone in the bladder and make it come out rapidly. If you will do this the patient will be cleared of the stone.

