Take 3 drams of orris root made into fine powder and mix it with the raw yolk of a fresh egg and have the sick person swallow it with warm good white wine and with a wafer Do this several mornings in a row. It softens all the body around in back and in front so that one will urinate until all the gravel goes out. You will be cured rapidly.

Another for the above malady of the stone. Take some blood of a goat in the month of August and distill it in a glass still and drink 3 ounces of this distillation with ½ ounce of sugar. Make it warm and take it early in the morning and do it several times and you will see a good result with urination of much gravel. Likewise, if you are having great pain from the stone and can feel it by placing the finger in the anus, in this case take 4 ounces of this distillation and 1 dram each of very fine powder made of the blood and liver of the goat and of blood a hare and its liver. Put everything into this distillation and heat it. Then in the morning at dawn, first urinate and then inject all that you can of this composition into the penis with a pump if you can. Stay in repose for 3 or 4 hours and hold it in the bladder longer if you can and you will feel the stone break apart. In order to urinate it, take some rose water and plantain water with sugar and it should be tepid. Inject it into the penis several times and do not hold too much in the bladder but let it come in its time. Do it this way until the burning has been relieved but do not stop doing the first injection every morning. If the penis gives out urine, do not interfere. If it does not give out urine do this second injection and continue the first until you feel free of the stone with the assistance of God. Take care of yourself, eat lightly and keep warm. Do not touch women on the days that you medicate or you may do harm to yourself. Make a vow to God and to Saint Cosmas and to Saint Damian to make a benefaction on their holy day to the praise and glory of God and of these saints and by the faith that you have in God of a cure and of urinating the stone. Know that through God's grace soon you will be cured. It is tested.

Other secrets for malady of the stone. Take 1 lb. of juice of saxifrage and 8 ounces of strong white vinegar and mix them together and distill them in a glass still with a slow fire. Give 1 ounce of this water to the patient to drink early in the morning with a little fine sugar. Continuing this will help you greatly.

Drinking the warm juice of St. John's wort in the morning with sugar aids much in breaking the stone.

Also cook a scorpion on the grill and give it to the patient to eat in any way that you can so that he does not recognize it and rub all the pubic area, the penis and around to the rear with scorpion oil that should be very warm. He should put on warm clothes and stay warm and it will have a good result.

Again, take a bowl of lentils and a good handful of rue and put it to soak in 1 ½ lb. each of water of hops and of hound's tongue and of pods of broad beans and let it stay for 3 days to soak and then give 6 ounces of it to the infirm one to drink in the morning with ½ ounce of sugar. It should be warm. He should stay in repose but not sleep for 3 hours. This beverage aids in breaking the stone and he will urinate all of it.

Also take the roots of young elder, wash them and clean them. Then bruise them with a stick and cook them in good white wine with ½ bowl of red chick peas. When this is cooked, strain it and save the boiled liquid in a glass bottle. Give a glass of it early in the morning to the patient to drink warm and it will help him greatly with the stone and with gravel and he will urinate profusely.

If you wish never again to feel the pain of the stone, take 1 handful each of cinquefoil, couch grass and fennel roots. Dry them and make powder of them. Give a spoonful in a glass of warm white wine, one morning yes and the next no. Continuing this will help greatly in removing the pain.

To make a wine for use against the malady of the stone.

