Take 3 handfuls of cinquefoil leaves with the roots and 5 handfuls of the roots of couch grass, well washed and clean, 2 handfuls of saxifrage, a full bowl of whole red berries of winter cherry and 2 cut lemons. The herbs should be cut finely. Put everything in a little bag of fine, loosely-knit linen tied with a thread to the top of a wine barrel and fill this barrel with must of good, pure white wine that has not been fermented and let it ferment for 1 month or more in the barrel with the little bag in it and every evening fill it up with some must so that it heats better and purifies itself and throws down all the bad lees. When it will not ferment any more and becomes cold and clear, remove the little bag and strain the wine carefully so it does not become turbid. Then return it to the barrel and stopper it well at the top so it keeps better. When it seems to you that you feel the pain of the stone in the bladder or in the kidney or have some other difficulty with urination, drink a glass of this wine early in the morning, staying in bed and reposing for at least 2 hours. Depending on the improvement that you feel, drink it for 2 or 3 mornings and not more because it will overheat the liver. If you think that you may be drinking too much, drink it one morning and not the next so that it has less effect on you. This wine aids greatly in breaking the stone in the bladder and in the kidney and causes copious urination. You will feel the stones going out of the penis. If the effect is not rapid enough with the remedies above, it is appropriate to use some poultices or ointments on the pubic region or on the penis or kidney. Take care of yourself and eat things suited to the desired result. By doing this you will help nature recover to pristine health, with the aid of God and of Saint Cosmas and Saint Damian. You will not be the first to achieve this and you will be cured.

Another to break a stone in the bladder or the kidney and to urinate it little by little. Take 2 drams each of cloves, galingale, millet and cinnamon, all powdered, and parsley, asparagus and saxifrage, dried and powdered, and ashes made from scorpions, and blood of goat and of hare, everything powdered and mixed. Then give one spoonful of it to drink early in the morning with white wine with sugar in it and it will help you greatly to break the stone and it will make you urinate copiously.

Another. Take one glass of the following water in the morning and in the evening when you go to sleep. It should be warm with sugar in it and it will make you urinate a lot of gravel. Take 1 ounce each of water of radish, of butcher's broom, of asparagus, of fennel, of celery, of couch grass and of goat's rue. When you drink it, drink it rapidly and soon it will work to make you urinate the gravel gently without distress.

