Approved ointment for pain of the kidney. Take 1 ounce of myrrh, one egg white, 2 ounces of rose oil and ½ ounce of white wax. Mix them together and rub down the kidneys.

Another for heated kidneys. Take 1 handful each of the herb nightshade, lesser sedum and plantain. Grind them and make juice and put in a fresh egg white, beaten, and a very little rose vinegar. Mix well together, and in the evening when you go to sleep, rub the kidneys and wet some cloths and put them on the kidneys. Also rub in the morning and by continuing this juice, soon you will be cured.

Ointment for the kidney for those who are draining from the penis.

Take 2 ounces each of oil of roses and violets, 1 dram each of red and yellow sandalwood, 2 ounces of white wax, 1 ½ drams of rose vinegar and 1 scruple of camphor. Put the oil and the wax in a pot and incorporate them well. Then put in the sandalwood and incorporate well on a slow fire. Remove it from the fire and put in the vinegar and the camphor, cut up, and stir continuously until it is cold. Then wash it in 3 waters and at the last one leave a little in and it will be made. Save it for your needs. Take 3 ounces each of rose water, plantain water and portulaca water and in the evening rub the kidneys very well upwards and the pubis and put on a linen cloth and soon you will be cured. Do not eat heating things. Use 1 ounce of red sugar early in the morning as you are getting up and drink at least one glass of fresh water and also 2 ounces each of distilled water of endive, chicory and plantain with ½ ounce of julep. This beverage will refresh all your insides, even the liver, and it helps the blood greatly. Use it for 4 or 5 mornings in a row. If you wish to be cured, do not fail to do these remedies for the draining from the penis. This ointment is also good for women with heated kidneys, even one who may have a white drainage. It is tested.

Another water to bathe the kidneys in anyone who has dripping from the penis that inhibits coitus. Take 2 ounces each of rose water and water of plantain, of squash, of water lily, of lettuce, houseleek and sedum and whites of 3 fresh eggs and 4 scruples of camphor and incorporate all well together. In the evening and morning, bathe the kidney well and the front of the body. Then rub with the above unguent as was described and soon you will be cured. This was proved by tests.

Another. Wet some cloths in fresh water and put them on the testicles and the penis. Do it several times and soon you will be cured of the dripping. It has been tested.

Water that is injected into the penis for those who have dripping.

Take 2 ounces each of water of plantain, of squash, of verjuice, of pine nuts, of shepherd's purse, of burnet saxifrage and rose water and 6 ounces of good, clear white wine. Put them together in a clean pot and put them on a slow fire and put in 1 handful of dry roses and 2 drams of powdered coral and raise it barely to boiling. Then remove it from the fire and strain it and save this water. When you wish to treat with it, make it warm just barely above cold. Take it up with a little sugar in a syringe that should be clean inside. Put it in the opening of the penis and hold your hand firm and inject it with force. Do it in this way 4 to 5 times in the morning and the evening and you will cause urination. By protecting yourself from adverse things, through God's grace, you will be cured because one who has tested it renders true testimony. For 9 months he tried but never found anything that might help him and a large swelling like an egg came under the penis near the testicles and material was going in that place whenever he moved his bowels or urinated. Much material gathered there in such a way that a fistula formed and it broke open and through that opening everything exited and nothing through the penis. He was thought to be lost to illness and never more to be a man. Now, with the aid of God, having him obedient to the doctor and using on him the above-described water and the electuary written below and with the good care of the doctor, he was cured but it took many days. But at certain times he was feeling again some pricking within and this was at certain months. It is true that when he was urinating or when the material was coming out, he was constrained to press the penis which by itself was not able to make anything come out. When so much had been fixed for him, he was very content to have received such comfort from God and from men. He would watch and know that, when this material was burning him it was not cured, and if by chance it would happen, he would at once look to his first remedy, to refrain from coitus, to wash himself, to take the beverages, to use the ointments, to take the electuaries and other appropriate powders, because in truth all these remedies have been tested. I give them all to you, for in truth no others have this power.

Electuary for those who have dripping from the penis.

Take 1 handful each of the herb knot grass, shepherd's purse and plantain, half a handful each of the bark of the service tree and of medlar and boil all these herbs and bark together in pomegranate wine and in 5 lb. each of distilled water of unripe grapes, of pine nuts and well water. Boil it until it is reduced 1/3 and remove it from the fire and strain it and press everything in a little press and extract all the substance. Put all this boiled liquid again in a pot and put in a young fowl to cook, dressed as usual, and let it cook well until the meat is detached from the bone. Then remove it and clean it well from the bones and grind it very finely in a mortar and put in fine sugar so that it appears to you that it is made in the form of an electuary. If needed add some of the boiled liquid to distemper it when you give it or otherwise with chicken broth or with red wine. Give it early in the morning. Then at once give a glass to drink of the water written below when it is cold. Through God's grace you will see a very good result. This is a very rare secret and few persons at this time are not healed by this electuary which is effective in a few days so a person might wish to test this electuary alone. It heals freely, quickly and without taking other appropriate things. It is true that I did many tests and I cured many persons. Through God's grace, they were cured completely and quickly and I tell you this from observing it.

Beverage for those who have excessive dripping from the penis.

