Also this is another ointment you can make which is good to reduce blood from hemorrhoids when too much blood is coming out. Take 1 ounce of oil of mastic and boil it just a little and rub the hemorrhoids with this as warm as you can bear. Then put on some powdered gall, made as fine as spice powder. Do this several times and, through God's grace, the blood soon will be stopped.

To stop the white flux of women and men in several ways.

Take white beans and grind them and make flour and take 1 ounce of it, 2 drams of powdered coral, 3 drams of parched, powdered deer horn, 1 dram of powder made of seeds of yellow violets, 3 leaves of sage cut very minutely and leaves of oak made into powder. Stir everything together and give the patient a spoonful of it in half a glass of warm red wine early in the morning. The patient should repose for an hour. Do this for 3 or 4 mornings. The flow will be stopped quickly by making this binder: Take 1 ounce each of dragon's blood gum and Armenian red clay, the whites of 3 fresh eggs and 2 ½ ounces each of rose water and soot from the chimney. Make everything into fine powder and incorporate together in a bowl. Then make 2 strips of hemp fibers and dip one end in this poultice. In the evening put one strip on the pubis and the other on the opposite side on the rear and let it stay this way, well bound on, and soon you will cure the white flux because it has been tested. Do not have coitus during this period.

Another to make the white flux of women and men stop. Take 1 handful of the plant and seed of burdock, half a handful of ripe seeds and leaves of ivy and 1 ounce each of seeds of red poppies and of plantain. Boil everything in a flask of wine until it reduces 1/3. Then strain it and press the herbs well. Give 4 ounces of this wine every morning in the form of a warm syrup. Continue this for 6 to 8 mornings. If the patient takes care of herself as described, the flux will soon be decreased and will stop.

Another to stop the white menstrual flow. Use 3 wafers and take one each morning and say a Pater Noster with the Ave Maria and make over them the sign of the cross. On the first one write these holy words, viz., '+ Pater agios + Pater athanatos + Pater eleyson + Pater ymaon.' On the second morning with 3 Pater Noster, write: '+ Pater Deus + Pater fortis + Pater inmortalis + Pater miserere + .' On the third, write with 5 Pater Noster: '+ Pater quies + et quid novenus + est. Free your servant (name) from sickness +.' Do this remedy for 3 mornings in a row and you will see the effect of holy words. To make her sleep, take the gall bladder of a hare and give it to her to drink with red wine and soon she will sleep for 2 hours and it will help her greatly.

