Another to stop white menstruation. Take 1 ounce of seed of amaranth, that is the velvet flower, the red kind, ½ ounce each of dragon's blood gum and Armenian red clay, 2 ounces of burdock seed, 2 ½ ounces of the yellow flower that is in the center of the vermilion rose, 4 ounces of the seed of sorrel picked on the day of Saint John the Baptist or the day of Saint John the Beheaded and 4 ounces of fine sugar and this will be all. Make very fine powder of all these things and incorporate them together. Preserve this in a packet of leather for your needs. When the woman needs it, she should take one spoonful of the powder in the evening when she goes to sleep with good red or white wine or broth that should be warm, otherwise with a fresh egg. Also in the morning she should take some in the form of a syrup and repose for 2 hours. She should continue it for 6 to 8 days, keeping herself from every pollution and should not eat things warming but all things cooling. I tell you that soon, with the aid of God, you will cure her, since many knowledgeable persons have tested it and they have cured.

Another to reduce the white flux. Make this lavage and put on these tents. Take water distilled from milk vetch and wash the vagina 4 to 6 times a day and it will help greatly. Then take juice from the best valerian and make some tents as long as the little finger made with the usual rules. Wet them very well with the juice and put them on the opening of the womb and you will see a good result. Change them often. Give this syrup: 2 ounces each of plantain juice, knot grass juice and portulaca juice, 1 ounce of rose water, ½ dram of powdered ginger and 1 dram of powdered coral with sugar. Give it warm in the evening and the morning for 7 days and you will cure her rapidly. It has been tested.

To stop the white discharge of women quickly.

Take 2 ounces of the core of the stems of one-year-old elder, 6 ounces of fine wheat flour, 3 ounces of fine sugar, 3 drams of yellow sandalwood and 5 drams of parched deer horn and make everything into very fine powder. Mix and make it into a dough with enough clean honey and make little fritters cooked in a covered frying pan. In the evening when the patient goes to sleep, she takes one in her mouth and with that goes to sleep. Be careful about those things described above or you will accomplish nothing. Early in the morning give her a bowl of chicken broth to drink, or broth in which a calf's foot has been cooked with ½ dram of powdered coral, 1 dram of parched deer horn and 1 ½ drams of yellow amber. Alternatively these may be put in either good red wine or in a fresh egg. After this beverage, she should rest for a while and very soon, through God's grace, she will be cured. Keep this as certain.

First attach around her neck this prayer written on clean parchment with 3 Pater Noster and say 14 times, 'In the name of the Father and Son and Holy Spirit, Amen +. The Lord, the Father and the Holy Spirit are merciful. Amen. The blessed Virgin Mary and .' Say this 2 times or 3 a day, continuing for 7 days. Then in the evening make this warm broth. Take 1 handful of milk vetch, 4 cypress nuts, crushed, 1 ½ drams of powdered incense and 2 scruples of powdered cloves and boil everything in dry red wine until it reduces 1/3. Then strain it and put in the powdered cloves. In the evening when she goes to sleep, she should wash the vagina very well with this warm wine and should not dry it but let it dry by itself and go to sleep leaving that manis christi in her mouth. In the morning she should take the beverage described above, taking care of herself as described above. It is very certain that she will be cured rapidly because I say I have made it work many, many times and have achieved effects when it was truly desired. They are cured by observing the rules that have been put in place.

Also you can put a band of linen in a box of camphor for one night and gird that around the kidneys and it will help you to restrain the white menstruation.

For warming the vagina.

Take 4 drams each of crushed white lead, roasted lead and rose oil, 2 drams of white rose vinegar and, if there are festering sores, add 3 drams each of roasted parchment and squash. Mix everything well together an make it in the form of an unguent and medicate with this. But first the sore place should be washed with barley water, plantain water and water of cypress nuts with a little white wine and 2 ounces of honey made in the form of a hot lavage and washed 2 or 3 times a day and then medicated. She should eat refreshing things and soon you will cure her. I give you this as certain through hearing of it.

Fomentation for the womb when it has come out of the vagina.

Take some lodestone that has been under the earth so it has not seen air and put it in a great fire and make it very hot. Then put it in a tub and sprinkle it with strong vinegar. The woman should stand over it and receive all those fumes. This is done in the evening and at once she should go to bed. Then have some rue and extract the juice. Then make a ball of cotton and attach a thread that can be attached to the thigh. Wet the ball in the juice of rue and put it in the opening of the womb and at once the woman should take the ball and push it in and the womb should go back to its place. However, make a good tie for the ball so it does not remain inside. Then make this ointment to rub the kidneys. Take cyclamen and rue, each the same amount, and grind them very finely and put them in a little pot to boil with old oil until it reduces 1/3. When it is cold, press well until you extract the substance. Then put it again in a clean pot with a little clean wax and incorporate it well. Rub the kidneys and put on warm cloths and wrap them well. Make the woman stay with the kidneys lowered and with the head and buttocks raised. Do this one evening yes, the next no. Do this 3 times and she will be cured. She should eat warm things: doves, hens, cockerels with spices and good wine and soon she will be cured even if the malady is old.

To reduce the red discharge of excessive menstruation of women.

