Another to stop the red menstruation of a woman. Make a powder of deer horn and of her hair, ½ ounce each, and incorporate them with 3 drams each of powdered mastic and myrrh. In the morning give it to her to drink with 4 ounces of warm red wine in the form of a syrup for 4 or 5 mornings. Do not doubt that very soon you will cure her. For the rest you know how to care for her and it will bring you honor.

Another to stop the red menstruation of a woman. Take 3 ounces of burdock juice, 2 ounces of plantain juice, 3 quatrini of powdered cloves and 2 ounces of endive water. It should be drunk cold early in the morning and should be done several more times. I tell you that soon you will cure her. She should not eat warming things.

Another to stop menstruation. Take 4 ounces each of juice of plantain and of knot grass, 3 ounces of rose water, 2 ounces of myrtle water and boil them and add 2 drams of  and 1 dram of fine powdered cinnamon and make it into a syrup. Give it early in the morning and in the evening when she goes to sleep. Do this for several days and soon you will cure her so that too much menstrual fluid will not come.

Another to stop menstruation so that too much does not flow. Take 2 ounces of the stone hematite, crush it and grind it very finely on porphyry and mix it with 2 ounces of plantain juice. Add ¾ of a pound of tansy and divide it into 3 parts and have her take one of these parts every day for 3 days and soon she will be freed. If this medication does not please you, take ¼ of a pound of dragon's blood gum and shells of hazel nuts ground into powder, mix them together and give it to the sick one to drink with dry red wine and cover her well in bed and do this for 5 mornings and if she has not recovered, continue to the end of 9 mornings and she will be cured. She should be careful what she eats, not eating things that are cooling.

*Also to the above, one can add roasted bark of pomegranate made into powder and give it to drink with mutton broth and it will stop the menstruation rapidly. It has been tested.

To cure the vagina of the woman both inside and out.

Take rose oil washed nine times with five pounds of fresh water, 2 drams of camphor and 1 dram of white wax. Melt the wax with the oil on a little fire and when you have removed it from the fire, put in the camphor, cut finely, and stir until it is cold and it will be made. With this rub the vagina and soon you will cure her. First wash it with rose water and fresh water.

Another to cure it inside. Take 6 ounces each of mucilage of tragacanth and kernels of quince seeds, 2 ounces of flax seeds, 2 ounces of oil of sweet almonds and 1 ½ ounces each of oil of lilies, of camomile, of violets and butter and boil them on a low fire and you will have a soft unguent. Rub with this in the morning and evening and soon you will cure her.

Another for this illness of the vagina. Take 1 handful of rue and grind it very finely and compound it with laurel oil and wet cloths in it and put them in the vagina and soon she will be cured. Otherwise you can use all three of these treatments together and they will do the work and quickly. She is not to eat warming things and you will cure her soon. It has been tested.

To cause the period of a woman. This has been tested.

Take 1 handful or more each of fine mint, hyssop and corn poppy, that is red poppy, and dry them in the shade and make very fine powder of them. Then give a dose of 1 ounce or 1 ½ ounces to the woman, each time according to the person, if one is more affected than another. Incorporate 2 scruples of saffron in the dose and give it with 4 ounces of water of maiden hair fern or good white wine or mutton broth or with a fresh egg and it should be warm. Give it early in the morning in the form of a syrup and she should lie down for at least 2 hours and be careful. She should take this beverage for at least 3 mornings in a row. Soon she will have her period and even one who has never had one. In the evening when she goes to sleep, she should rub the body, the vagina and the stomach with the following oils that should be well warmed and she should be well wrapped with warm cloths. Take 3 ounces of laurel oil, 2 ounces of oil of camomile and 1 ounce of white lily oil and add ½ ounce of sweet almond oil and 1 scruple of whole saffron. Heat all together well until the oil takes up the odor of the saffron and she should rub the body with this very warm from the throat down to the bottom and she should stay very warm. You should know that very soon, with divine aid, the menstruation that you expect will come. This secret has worked very effectively in some nuns, giving thanks always to God and observing the rules given above. You will not seek other medicine because this one is the most approved.

