Take artemisia and boil it and take that fomentation and put it on the pubis. Take some juice of the same herb with myrrh and saffron and make a tent soaked in this juice and put it in the vagina and it will bring the menstruation quickly.

Furthermore, take 3 ounces of roses and boil it in 2 lb. of sweet white wine and reduce it 2/3 and give it warm to drink with saffron. Give the juice of the climbing vine that grows in the hedges to the sick one to drink with honeyed water and soon the menstruation will come.

Another to cause the period of the woman. Take dried rock alum and mix it with strong vinegar and put it warm on the navel in the evening and soon the period will come.

Lavage for the womb when it may be coming out from the vagina.

Take one and a half jugs of good white wine and put therein 1 handful each of flowers of camomile, dry roses and flowers of blue violets, 1 ounce of powdered incense and 2 drams of mastic. Boil everything together until it reduces 1/4. Then strain it and with this tepid boiled liquid wet a little fine linen cloth and very gently bathe the cervix of the womb that is coming out and especially those fine crusts that are attached to the part outside that are made by exuding blood. Then when you have bathed it and cleaned it well and dried it with another very fine linen cloth, push it up the cervix very gently and at the same time have a good fragrance under her nose so that she draws the good odor in and she breathes at the same time you push inward. Then make a fomentation from below. So that none of it is lost, take a bowl with a few embers in it and put on them incense, solid styrax, lodestone and powdered yellow sandalwood, at your discretion. It will mix with her breath and as she draws it in this will help you greatly so that the womb will quickly go into place. Do this lavage 2 times a day or 3, depending on whether the infirmity is serious and old and, with God's grace, soon you will cure her. This has been tested in several persons and they were cured quickly and well. She should be careful of what she does and should eat good things, and little and well cooked, and should stay warm, not have much exertion and should sleep alone.

Another to soften the womb that descends out of the vagina. Take some old lard from a male pig and the same amount of goose fat, cut them up, melt them and with this slightly warm the womb should be rubbed very well and with care. But first take some roots of dwarf elder, wash them well and cut them finely and cook them very well in water and before the woman rubs herself, first make this fomentation closed below so nothing is lost. Then rub with great care and soon the hardness will be softened and the womb will go into its place rapidly without pain, using dexterity to push it up very slowly. Smelling good odors continuously will help her by having her inhale the odors strongly. Do this several times and you will cure her quickly.

Another for one with prolapsed womb. This remedy has been tested. Take some seeds of henbane, that is Hyoscyamus , and make very fine powder of them. Then take a basin with hot ashes in it and put this powder on them and make a fomentation from below so that nothing is lost. But first make this lavage. Take good white wine and boil it with dry roses, cinnamon, nutmeg and camomile. Then bathe the womb well and with great dexterity and it should be dried. Do this fomentation and soon it will return to its place. She should also be smelling something fragrant and take care of herself.

Another for the womb that descends out of the vagina, to make it return within. Take 1 handful each of pennyroyal, tansy, camomile, sage, flowers and leaves of tamarind and boil them with good white wine until it is reduced 1/3. Then with this wine, tepid, wash very carefully the cervix of the womb that has dropped out and push it up very slowly with a fine linen cloth and soon you will cure her. It has been tested.

Another to cure the womb when it has descended and also the intestine that comes out from behind which is something very bothersome. Take tepid goat's milk and repeatedly bathe the womb or the rear of the man. Then put this powder on it, made very fine like a spice. Take equal amounts of parched deer or goat horn and Greek pitch and add an equal amount of mastic and put it on the womb. Then press it back in very slowly with a fine cloth. Do this several times and soon you will cure. She should take care of herself in all the things as has been said above for 6 to 8 days and you will cure her rapidly. It has been tested.

For one in whom the womb has prolapsed make this fomentation. Take mutton fat, grapevine leaves, Greek pitch and pine tar, the amounts at your discretion, and put all these things on the embers and make a fomentation that the woman receives from below so the sick area receives it. Do this several times and soon the womb will return to its place.

