Another fomentation for the womb that has come out. Take fenugreek, incense and myrrh, each the same amount. This gives a heavy perfume and the womb will return to its place.

For one in whom the intestine falls out of the rear.

Take the same amounts of raisins, cleaned honey, cumin and incense. Everything should be well ground and incorporated very well in the mortar and made in the form of a soft unguent. Then rub the intestine gently with the unguent and push it up with a fine cloth. Smelling good odors draws in the breath and soon this will cure. You should take care of yourself and not do too much exertion. Stay warm, eat little and of substance and you will be cured.

Another to make the intestine return inside from the rear. Take white lead, wild pomegranate, rock alum and antimony, each the same amount, made into very fine powder. Then wash the intestine with white wine in which roses, cinnamon and camomile have been boiled. It should be very tepid. Then when you have washed and dried it gently, rub it with rose and violet oils with a feather. Put on this powder like a spice and push the intestine inside very slowly with the hand using a fine linen cloth. Then put on a thick cloth on the outside and bind it so that the intestine is not able to come out of the body after you have treated it. Then do it again and continue to medicate 2 or 3 times a day until it is cured. The patient should take care of himself and not exert himself too much, so soon, with the aid of God, it will be cured. It is tested.

Another to make the intestine return inside when it has come out because of flux. Take rosemary, sage, mint and parsley, 1 handful in all, cut finely with a knife. Take a little hard cheese of sheep's milk and stir everything together with 2 eggs and make a pancake of it and put it between 2 rose leaves, one on top and the other below. Sweep the hearth clean and put this pancake in the center with the leaves until it gets very warm. Then cover it with very warm ashes and let it cook. Then give it to the sick one to eat in the morning and afterward he should sleep. Do this 3 or 4 or more times, according to the need and soon, with God's grace, he will be cured. He should take care of himself and not eat warming things and soon he will regain health.

To resolve an inguinal swelling or boil inside.

Take galbanum gum and spread it on chamois leather in the form of a plaster and put only this on the inguinal swelling or boil to make it disappear. It will resolve itself quickly and you will be cured.

Another to resolve a swelling before it fills up greatly so it will be forced to come to a head. Take one or 2 leaves of savoy cabbage and pork fat and grind them well together and put it on the sore place or swelling. Do this 3 or 4 times and if it wants to go away, it will go away to nothing and will be dissolved. If it wants to form a head, it will mature and may be incised without pain and soon it will be cured.

Another for the above-described infection. Take mallow, sweet violets, marsh mallow and linseed flour, the amounts at your discretion. Cook them in water. Then grind this and put in pork fat and make a plaster and put it on warm.

To open up boils quickly.

Take flax seed and boil it in cow's milk until it is well cooked. Then put this on the boil in the form of a very warm plaster. Soon it will open, whether it is an abcess or whatever it may be.

Another to make a boil open. Put thereon dog's dung as warm as you can and it will soon be opened.

Another to make it open and quickly. Take cyclamen roots and old lard, well ground and incorporated, and put it on in the form of a very warm plaster. No matter how swollen it is, it will break open quickly and you will be cured.

Another to resolve swellings on the groin. Take 1 ounce of lily oil and 3 ounces of camomile oil, 2 drams each of Armenian clay and dragon's blood gum. Boil all these things together on a slow fire and put it on the groin in the form of a very warm plaster. Do this for 3 days and it will be resolved.

Another to resolve or destroy it. Take goat's leaf and oil and grind them and put this on and it will remove a carbunculus.

Another to cause maturation. Take rose oil, oil of egg yolk, mother's milk and wheat flour and compound them and put it on warm.

The same. Take garlic cloves and pepper and chew them in the mouth and put it on the carbuncle and this will work within 3 days. It has been tested.

Another. Take some feathers that are on the rump of a live pullet and at once bind them on the sore place and the sick person will be cured and the chicken will die at once. You recognize a carbuncle when it develops with great pain and is very red and inflamed.

Another. Take self-heal, grind it between two lodestones and put it on the sore place and it will open in one night and you will be cured.

To resolve a boil rapidly.

Take one orange and divide it in half and squeeze it into a bowl. Soak therein a cotton stupe, press it and put it on the warm ashes. Press it again and let it stay until it is warm. Then remove it, clean off the ashes, put on a little well-ground salt and put it warm on the boil or swelling. Put that half of the orange on the stupe and bind it well so that it does not fall off. Change it in the morning and evening and soon it will resolve the boil and it will go away. This has been tested.

To make a boil come to a head that is on the rib and on the breasts of women.

