For those who are not able to be satisfied with their wives, say this prayer and carry it with you.

+ In the name of the Father + Son + and Holy Spirit. + Amen. We pray, 'God of our fathers, Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, God who from the rib of the first man created woman, a helper to him as one heart and one spirit and two in one body, so men should leave behind father and mother and cling to their most gentle wives. God of the Holy Trinity, the true God, truth itself, I swear to you, I entreat you in your most holy name, which is ineffable, alpha and omega. Just as you removed the boys from the flames of the furnace, saved Shadrach, Misach and Abednego, so extinguish ire, anger and discord between me (name) and my husband (name). If you would restore us to concord and bind us together in my love, do not allow anything harm my striving for his love (name). My husband should love me and hold me in such affection as was between Adam and Eve and between Abraham and Sarah. So may God give true love and affection between me (name) and my husband (name). Amen.' You should know that this is effective without the Mass. However the husband and wife ought to have it said over this prayer and they ought to be beside the altar when Mass is said, especially in honor of the Holy Mary and the Mass of the Holy Trinity and the Mass of the Holy Spirit. After the masses have been said, the wife or husband in private should cook bread for her husband or his wife and God will aid them. In the name of the Father, Son and Holy Spirit, Amen.

Another to reconcile the wife with the husband or the husband with his wife or other persons. Say this holy prayer in the morning with a blessed candle and devotedly and in a few days you will see a good effect. First make the sign of the cross, in the name of the Father, Son and Holy Spirit, Amen. 'Holy Mary, mother of our God, Jesus Christ, Saint John the Baptist, Saint John the Evangelist, Saint Adon and old Saint Simon, strict and crowned, whom God much loved, Saint Leonard, Saint Helen who came to the cross of our Lord, Jesus Christ, on Mount Calvary, bring back my husband (name) to my love, Amen. God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, bring back (name) to my love, Amen. The right hand of the Lord is virtue. The right hand of the Lord has raised me. May the right hand of the Lord bring back (name) in virtue to my love. Amen. All the holy angels and archangels, all the holy patriarchs and prophets, all the holy virgins and all the saints of God bring back (name) to my love. Intercede with him. May his father or his old teacher, speaking of his honor, intercede between (name) and (name). Amen. Lord Jesus Christ, son of the living God, who sent the love and passion of the Holy Spirit into your disciples, through your holy intercession send honest love between (name) and (name). So (name) has said to (name) that he loves her with all his heart, with all his mind, so he can love no other person except (name) said above. Amen. Amen. Amen. So be it. So be it. So be it. +Agios + hotheos + agios + ischiros + agios + athanatos + heleyson + ymas +. Holy God, holy power, holy and immortal, pity this sinner (name). Amen. Come forth, Lord, and hear me (name), a sinner calling to you. Just as you hear all prayers, so hear me (name). Hear me, Lord Jesus Christ. Send your righteous love between me (name) and (name) whom I love as myself in good faith, so that it is not possible for me to stand nor walk, eat nor drink, neither by day or night, nor do or have anything good unless he will love me with all his heart and with all his mind (name). Christ conquers, Christ rules, Christ orders. Amen. In the name of the Father, Son and Holy Spirit, Amen.' Say one Pater Noster and one Ave Maria and be sure that you will have God's grace.

Another for the above. Write these on an unconsecrated wafer. 'Peace to you and from you my peace. I give peace to you. Alpha and omega is the first and foremost. (Names of husband and wife). Eat this and you will have the peace that you desire.

