Another for the above. Take powder of valerian and give it to the husband to eat or he may carry it near him and the husband will love his wife.

Another for the above. Write on an unconsecrated wafer, 'Abraham loved Sarah, Isaac Rebecca, Jacob Laban, Joseph the blessed Virgin Mary. So each esteems each other over all things in the world.' Then put it under the altar while 3 masses are sung and make it into powder and eat it and it will happen.

*Another to remove hatred and malice. If anyone may have hatred against you or your wife or your husband, take 3 burning coals and extinguish them with your urine, saying, 'As I extinguish these coals with my urine, so is removed any malice or hatred a man or woman may have against my person +.' As you do this, step over the coals. Do this 3 times with a Pater Noster.

Poultice that maturates and softens quickly.

Take 2 ounces each of oil of camomile, of dill and of lavender, 1 ½ ounces each of fenugreek flour and linseed flour, 4 ounces of turpentine and 1 ounce of new wax. Put the oil, wax and turpentine together on a slow fire until they are well melted and mixed. Then remove this from the fire and put in the flours and incorporate them well. When it is tepid, put it on the abcess in the evening and the morning. Rewarm it and keep putting it on and keep it very warm. Do this several times and soon the abcess will be resolved either from within or by opening and it will be gone.

Another poultice for maturating. Take 6 ounces each of tar and honey and ½ ounce each of incense and fenugreek flour. Put the tar on the fire to melt, then put in the honey, then the incense and the flour and remove it from the fire and mix everything well. Then, as warm as you can stand, put it on the abcess that hurts and is not ready to maturate and is developing. Put this poultice on enough times so the abcess will be excellently maturated and it will give you no more pain and soon you will be cured.

Another poultice for reducing the open sore of an abcess without necrosis. Take the yolks of 3 eggs and enough barley flour or dust from the mills to knead the yolks into a poultice. Then put it on twisted yarn with little disks of the poultice and put one on the open abcess. This closes the abcess and makes tissue grow and removes the pain. It will cure you rapidly.

