Another poultice for closing all open sores. Take 4 ounces of rose honey, 6 ounces of turpentine, 1 ounce each of sarcocol gum, myrrh and fenugreek flour and enough flour of rye and of lupins to thicken the poultice. Melt the turpentine on a slow fire and then mix in the rose honey. Remove them from the fire and at once put in the sarcocol gum and the myrrh made into fine powder and the fenugreek flour and then the other 2 flours as needed until it has enough body. Always mix until everything is well incorporated and it will be made to perfection. Use it to treat at your pleasure in the way described above and you will cure quickly.

Another poultice for maturating any abcess. Take clean marsh mallow roots, cut finely and well ground. These are then prepared. Incorporate very well with 3 ounces each of pork lard and butter on a low fire. Put it warm on the abcess and soon it will be cleared up.

Another maturating poultice. Take 3 white onions and cook them on the grill. Then take the yolks of 3 eggs and as much butter as half of everything else and mix well together. Put it warm on the abcess and it clears up rapidly. Also you can add wheat flour and rose oil and this will work well.

Another poultice for maturating quickly. Take 2 ounces of marsh mallow roots, 1 ½ ounces of yeast for bread, 1 handful each of sweet violets and absinthe. Boil all these things in water so they are well cooked, grind them in a mortar and put in 2 ounces of powdered dry roses. Then mix all these things with the water and put it warm on the sore spot and soon it will maturate and you will be cured. It is tested.

Unguent to put on sores to make flesh grow.

Take 3 ounces of tar, 2 ounces of clean wax, 1 ounce each of incense and fenugreek flour and 1 lb. of ordinary oil. Boil the oil and melt the tar in it. Then remove it from the fire and put in the other things and continue to stir until it is cold and it will be made and save it for your needs. This unguent is put on top of a sore on a plaster and not into the sore. This generates good flesh. You do not need more than that, but sometimes other unguents are used.

Another unguent for resolving and maturating Take 3 ounces of camomile oil, 1 ounce each of clean wax, fenugreek flour and flax seed flour and incorporate everything on a slow fire. Then remove it from the fire and stir until it is cold and it will be made. This unguent maturates and resolves very wonderfully the infirmity described above. It will bring you honor.

Confection for coldness of the stomach.

Take the root of sea holly, which is similar to the parsnip, wash it and clean it carefully and cook it in honey, not too much, so that it is softened. Then grind it and put it in a bottle and put in appropriate spices, sugar and cinnamon and save it for your needs. In the evening when you go to sleep and in the morning when you get up, take a dose each time. By continuing it, it will give you a warm stomach and good breath and it will make you urinate a good amount. It has been tested.

Another for one who may have coldness of the stomach. Take some roots of the bee orchid, that is the fox stone orchid, in the month of March. Wash and clean 1 lb. and boil them with a flask of good white wine until they are well cooked and at the end add a little rose water. Then place them in a clean basin and add 2 ounces of starch from flour, 1 ounce each of finely powdered cinnamon, cloves and ginger, 4 ounces of fine sugar and 4 grains of finely chopped musk. Incorporate everything well and make small wafers of it and cook them in a covered frying pan or put the pan in the oven. When they are cooked, save them, and when you go to sleep, take 2 or 3 according to the size that you have made. After sleeping you will have the very best stomach and it will augment you in coitus, I tell you, in greatly enjoying coitus. By continuing it, you will see a very worthy result so that your wife will be content.

Another to augment intercourse. Take climbing ivy that is pilose on the reverse side of the leaves. Grind it and make juice and rub this juice well on the testicles and shortly you will feel that your generative powers have been greatly increased.

