Another unguent as above to rub the kidneys in the evening. Take 10 large and fresh nutmegs, 3 drams of ground coriander, 4 drams each of long and round peppers, 2 drams each of galingale and Roman pellitory, ½ ounce each of white ginger, cloves and cinnamon and 1 ounce each of mustard, native sulfur and laurel berries. All these things should be made into very fine powder and add 3 ½ ounces of washed and clean bee orchid. Then take 1 lb. of clean honey, 6 ounces of malvasia or other very good white wine, 2 ounces each of oil of mint, laurel oil and juice of catmint, 1 ½ ounces of goose grease and 3 ounces of white wax. In a vessel that has no odor, put on the fire the honey, wine, oil, juice, wax and the bee orchid and boil it until the wine is consumed. Then put in the above powders and incorporate them very well. Remove it from the fire and put in 4 grains of musk, 1 dram of civet and 6 grains of ambergris. They should all be macerated very finely to be almost impalpable and combined with fine sugar. Then incorporate all the composition very, very well and it will be made in the form of a soft unguent and it will be complete. Save it with care in a covered bottle for you and your related friends to use. In the evening when you go to bed, rub the kidneys throughly and the penis and the prepuce. Then stay with your dear wife and take your contentment together until there it will grow again. It is tested.

Plaster against coldness of the stomach.

Take 1 scruple each of the kinds of unguents made with musk, with amber and with aromatic roses, 1 scruple each of cloves, nutmeg, galingale, ginger, red coral, red roses and mint, 1 ounce of mastic, 3 drams of incense and as much oil of lavender and oil of spermaceti as needed to make this poultice. Then when it is made, spread it on a napkin or on a red, scarlet or cochineal red cloth. Put this warm on the stomach and keep it warm with a red cloth on it. Continue this and it will rewarm your stomach as much as you would wish and as it feels to you to be near, you will be able to raise it. This is tested.

To put peace and concord between two people, that is husband and wife.*

Say this prayer for 9 mornings and 9 times per morning with a blessed candle burning. When you have finished, say a mass of the Annunciation and you will have the grace you will have so urgently requested. This is the prayer, viz., 'I come to you, Angel Gabriel, and beseech you through your compassion and mercy and through the annunciation of the Virgin Mary and through that peace that you brought to the house of the Lord. May Caspar take you (name) to me, may Balthasar bind you to me, may Melchior lead you to me. So lead me to you and you to me (names). Angel Gabriel, who descended from heaven and brought peace and unity in the house of God, so put this peace between me and (name) that nevermore we are divided. I send the Angel Gabriel to you with honey in the mouth and with roses in the lap, so you can deny to the Virgin Mary that I ever did ill. In the name of the Father, Son and Holy Spirit, Amen + + + .'

*(Above this prayer is written in a different hand, 'It is a superstition').

