Another. On a new parchment or from an unborn lamb, write and carry with you. 'O Alpha and Omega, first and foremost, I promise to my man (name) that my love may always be most sweet as was between Adam and Eve, Abraham and Sarah, Isaac and Rebecca, Jacob and Rachel, Eustace and Theopista, and Jesus with the Church and with his disciples. So may love and peace be unbroken between me (name) and my man (name). + Christ conquers +, Christ rules + Christ orders +. Christ it is who orders that my love of my man and my man of me be made unbroken and inseparable. So be it + + + .'

The woman who has this prayer on her will give birth rapidly and without pain.

'In the name of the Father, Son and Holy Spirit, Amen. + Now, child created in heaven on high, infant come out in the name of the Father who created you. Come forth infant in the name of the Son who died for you. Come forth infant, in the name of the Holy Spirit who protects you. I bear you. Come forth in the name of the Father, Son and Holy Spirit, Amen. Anna gave birth to Mary. Elizabeth gave birth to Joan, the ancestor. Mary gave birth to the Savior. O little child, in the name of the true Christ, O baby, whether alive or dead, come forth from the womb as Christ calls you to the light. He invites you toward the fountain of life so you may see the splendor of living. Come forth because Christ calls you, just as he called Lazarus from the sepulchre. So be it. God who freed Sarah and gave her a son and likewise who made Rebecca the wife of Isaac, do this through your compassion for your servant (name), in the name of the Father, + Son + and Holy Spirit, + Amen.' Note that when the woman begins to give birth, then the woman attendant or other person says a Pater Noster and Ave Maria and also others in attendance. Then you read this prayer so that she hears it. Then she puts it on her back. As soon as she has given birth, remove it from her and give thanks to God that she has given birth without pain.

For the pain of parturition or for one who may have a dead baby in her body.

