Another for the pain of parturition. When the woman begins to feel the pains, look for a stone impregnated so that it has a kernel inside. These are found in the nests of eagles. She should bind the stone to one of her thighs and at once she will give birth. Be advised that as soon as she has given birth, the stone should be removed because the inside may all come out and this results in great danger If you think that the baby is male, tie the stone to the right thigh and if you believe that the baby is feminine, the stone should be bound on the left thigh and parturition will be almost without pain. If by chance the woman is not able to carry the child to its time and that during this time it may be lost without much cause, the woman should carry this stone on her back so that it touches her flesh and she will carry the baby, through God's grace, to its time. Then if the stone is removed as she begins to feel the pains, make it hang on one of her thighs, as described above. If the woman may know that she may have too much heat or warmth and this is the reason that she may not carry the baby to its time, she should eat almost all things cooling during this time. This aids in carrying the baby so it is not detached from the kidneys and stays to the end of its time. You should know that warm things in such a person deplete and weaken the strength and cause fever.

Another for one who feels the baby is dead in her body, to make her give birth in a short space of time. Take some of the herb savory cooked with cleaned honey and give it to the woman to eat. In a few days the baby will come forth without pain. If the pains should come after this delivery, make this remedy. Take equal amounts of cabbage leaves, mallow and Mercury's herb and cook them in oil. Then make a poultice and put this warm on the pubis, close to the vagina. The pain will lift soon and the vagina will be cleansed.

Another. Take the washed root of elecampane and cook it in water and give this to the woman who has a dead baby in her body. It will make it come out without any danger to her and will stop the red menstrum and will make her urinate a great deal. This medicine is safe and without danger because it has been tested.

To know if a woman may give birth to a male or female.

