Another potion to have sons. Take some betony picked in the month of May during the waxing moon and dry it in the shade and make fine powder. Take 1 lb. of honey, boil it in a clean little pot until it is well cleared and foamed. Remove it from the fire and strain it and put therein ½ ounce each of nutmeg and fine cinnamon, 2 drams of powdered cloves and 2 ounces of powdered sugar and enough of the above powder to thicken it. Mix everything warm, stirring continuously until it is cold. Then put it away in a bottle in a cool place. In the evening and the morning an amount equal to a nut should be taken for 10 or 12 days. Then she should stay with her husband early in the morning and she will see a marvelous result. Also she should use some in the morning, drinking a fresh egg with a spoonful of this powder of betony in it and relax a while in bed. But if the woman may be too sanguine, remove 3 ounces of blood every month from the common vein and she should eat things cooling. By using the above electuary and staying with her husband and with faith in God and knowing how to take care of herself, soon she will conceive. Every evening she should use this fomentation written below. Viz.

Another fomentation for the woman from below in the evening. Take pennyroyal or wild horsemint and boil it well with water. The woman should sit over the steam and receive it from below. She should do this 10 to12 times and stay with her husband and have the womb in a position to become gravid. Afterward she should keep quiet and calm for 3 hours on the right side and she will feel nausea and pain in the body. On observing this she will know she is pregnant. It is tested.

Another to know if the woman will deliver a male or female. First you need to know the month when she retained the seed and also the month that she expects to deliver and her name and that of her husband. Take the names and latinize them and count all the vowels, that is a, e, i, o, u. For example, in September there are 3, in May there are 2 and in the name Petrus there are 2 and in Katerina there are 4 for a total of 11. Because this is an uneven number, you should say she will give birth to a male. If the number is even, say it will be female. This is an infallible rule drawn from astrology many times by men of every faith and it has been tested.

Also if you may be told that the child, either male or female, is blind in one eye or crippled or lame, only ask the name and look at how many vowels are within the name. If they are even it is fated that it will be on the right side and if they are odd, the left side will be imperfect. If you have not seen it and have learned its name, do this in Latin.

To know if a woman loves a man or not. With your hand raised, go to her and say these words in the form of three statements, viz. ' Oracha minor fulgor,' 'Giabat gael rafphael,' Sada minium remuit.' Watch her and if the woman puts her hand to her chest, she does not love you. If she loves you she will put her hand quickly to her face and as your spouse she will come to love you and you will have your desire.

