Another for the man who is not able to fulfil his legitimate marriage with his wife and wants to use her, do this. Take some blessed white wax, enough to make 4 wafers and melt it on an iron shovel on the fire and pour this wax in a bowl with clean water in it. Then make a plaster and cut across it to form 4 parts and make them round in the form of a wafer. Then write on the first of these parts these words, viz. 'God of Abraham, God of Isaac and God of Jacob,' on the second, 'Caspar, Balthasar, Melchior,' on the third, 'Michael, Gabriel, Raphael,' and on the fourth, 'Shadrach, Misach, Abednego.' Take the four written pieces and say over them 5 masses in reverence of the 5 wounds of Jesus Christ. Then take the four wafers and put one in each corner of the bedroom where the patients sleep. They should have faith in Jesus Christ that they will soon be freed because others have proved this.

Another to remove evil deeds. Write on 3 unconsecrated wafers these words and for 3 mornings take one with devotion each morning with a Pater Noster and drink it with a little blessed water and soon, through God's grace, you will be free and cured of the evil. On the first wafer write, 'I (name) am innocent of any transgressions. In my Lord God, Jesus, I trust and I will not be weakened. + Jesus conquers, + Jesus rules, + Jesus orders. + Jesus defend me from all spells and charms, Amen.' On the second, 'You Lord Jesus Christ will not withdraw from me. Give assistance to me. Amen. Jesus conquers, + Jesus reigns, + Jesus defend me from all spells, Amen.' The third morning say, 'Break my bonds, Lord, and the evil against me. Praise to you. Jesus conquers, + Jesus rules, + Jesus from all spells and evil defend me, Amen.' Do this with devotion and, with the aid of God, soon you will be free.

Another to remove any spells and charms. Write on 9 unconsecrated wafers and give one each morning and say 5 Pater Noster and 5 Ave Maria in robes for 9 mornings. You will see much improvement from the sorcery. Viz., the first morning, 'Peace. The Father is power. +' The second, 'The life of the Son is the highest knowledge +,' and on the third, ' The Holy Spirit is the true being and the remedy for humans.'

Another to free a charmed man or woman quickly. Take a glass of wine in your hand and say over it these words three times in a row with a Pater Noster. Continue this for 3 mornings and each time when you have said it 3 times with the sign of the cross, have the man or the woman drink it all. These are the words, viz., 'I exorcise you wine by him who divided the Red Sea for the flight of Israel, by the 140,000 innocents taken from earth, by the 9 orders of angels, by the 10 holy words, by the 5 books of Moses, by the 4 evangelists, Matthew, Mark, Luke and John, and by the Holy Mary, mother of Jesus Christ, so our Lord may undo every charm and all spells and all evil that was done to you as God did through the power of our Jesus Christ who judges the living and the dead of the world. In the name of the Father + Son + and Holy Spirit + Amen. Christ conquers, + Christ reigns, + Christ rules, Amen + + +. So be it, Amen.' Then bind this little prayer on the right thigh of the woman, viz., 'They came out of the belly and they said lies.' If you will do this, soon it will free you. It has been tested.

To go on a journey and be secure from dangers. When you go on a journey say the Pater Noster and the Ave Maria and say, 'I would go on the way with Christ before me and with peace. The Holy Spirit be with me +. I commend myself to Christ and the Virgin Mary and Saint Jerome. In the name of the Father, Son and Holy Spirit, Amen.'

To remove hardness of the breasts when they may break open and to cure them when they have been cut.

