Take roots of the herb that is called dropwort which has leaves that draw back like those of burnet saxifrage and has white flowers like those of wild carrot but a little larger and has roots that grow like those of peony but smaller and all attached one behind the other in the shape of a ring. The time to pick it is in the beginning of June when it is blossoming perfectly. Take as much of this root as you wish, wash it well and dry it in the shade if you can and make very fine powder of it. Save this for all your needs. When the woman has an illness in the breast caused by running humors she may have pain more in one place than another and if you see some signs of red and hard swelling there may be an opening from which material continues to leak out. So that this woman may be cured rapidly, do this. Every morning take ½ spoonful and not more of this powder and have her drink it with white wine or warm broth as a syrup early in the morning and she should rest for an hour. If the breast is not broken open, do nothing more. Rub only with violet oil and if the soreness is increasing it will break open by itself and if the abcess is small it will be resolved from within. If the breast has broken open and matter leaks out, do not put anything on it except 3 or 4 folds of white cloth, one on the other, because this powder has the property that by itself the medicine cleans all the matter inside and sends it out through the opening and gently cleans without pain. When a lot of matter comes out that is a good sign that it is curing quickly because all the matter is gathering and coming out. Then, so that this illness will be well healed, she should follow all the rules you give her and it will heal easily and well. Even if the breast was swollen but it came to a head that was not broken open, continue just the same with this powder alone and the illness will be resolved little by little. You need to do nothing more. She should take care of herself for a few days and will be cured. It is tested. This powder is also useful in epilepsy.

If you take the flowers of dropwort that are white and put them in a little carafe with pure olive oil and cover it and put it in the sun for 20 days or one month, the oil will take on a very wonderful and pungent odor. This oil has many virtues, especially for pain of the stomach and also for those who may be ill from pregnancy and if it is rubbed on warm it is powerful in pains of the body. It stimulates urine and it may cure leaking of urine. It is useful for pain in the kidneys and it removes flatulence from the stomach, when it is rubbed on very warm. It removes the burning and signs of a burn and leaves the flesh soft. This oil has been tested many, many times by many gentlewomen of the Piedmont.

To soften the breasts and to remove pain.

Take 1 ½ lb. of cows' milk and bread crumbs and boil them together and put therein 12 threads of saffron to boil. Then put it on the breast as warm as you can stand in the form of a poultice. Do this in the morning and evening and it will reduce the swelling quickly and remove your pain.

Another to remove pain in the breasts. Take the herb cinquefoil and with pork fat, dove dung, honey and wax, each at your discretion, and incorporate everything on the fire. Then in the form of a poultice, put it on the swollen and sore breasts. Keep it on warm and soon it will lift the pain.

Another for pain in the breasts. Take 2 ounces of the inner bark of elder, 3 ounces of rose oil and ½ bowl of earthworms well washed with wine, and boil it a little. Then press it well under the press. Put in 1 ½ ounces of clean wax and when it is melted, put in incense and aloe, each 1 ½ ounces. Mix it well and it will be made. Rub the breasts with this several times and you will cure them.

To cure the nipples of the breasts when they may be hardened or with some cracks.

Take 1 ounce each of violet oil and white wax and ½ ounce of ground incense and mix everything together and stir well and with this rub the nipples of the breasts or the cracks and soon they will be cured.

Another for pain in the nipples. Take 1 handful each of dry roses and mallow and cook them. Then cut them finely and put therein rose oil, unwashed butter and barley flour, the amounts at your discretion, and mix it well and put it warm on the breast. If by bad luck a nipple was broken open, medicate first with unguento basilicone and then put on this warm poultice. Do this several times and soon you will cure. Even if they may discharge matter or may be swollen and red, you will cure them soon.

Another for cracked nipples. Take brandy, rose oil and powder made from the soles of old shoes that are roasted. Put equal amounts of the oil and powder on the fire and incorporate these and with this salve, rub the nipples of the breasts and soon will you cure them. It should be warm.

Another for hair of the nipples of the breast caused by having eaten some hair inadvertently. First say 3 Pater Noster and 3 Ave Maria and also have someone near say them. Where it may be appropriate to the sickness, do it this way or do this in a circle, as you prefer, with the cross in the middle and say these 4 words, ' Rex, Lex, Lux, Pax .' That is enough and soon it will be cured without anything else.

