Another for cracks on the breast and also good for lips and hands. Take 1 ounce each of marrow of veal, oil of sweet almonds and clean wax and put everything in a little pot and mix it well and it will be made. With this salve rub the cracks several times and shortly you will cure them.

To increase the milk in the breasts and to make it come forth.

Take marsh mallow, well cooked and well ground with pork lard, and flaxseed flour and well ground fenugreek, the amount of everything at your discretion, and incorporate them on the fire. Put it on the breasts and it will work well for you and the milk will be increased.

Another for one who may have lost milk. Take a hoof of a cow, roast it and make very fine powder and give it to the woman who has lost her milk to drink with wine or warm broth with sugar and soon her milk will return.

Another in whom the milk has been lost. Take some of the herb burdock, grind it and extract the juice and give 2 or 3 ounces to drink warm, with sugar in it, to the woman who has lost her milk and she will have it in abundance.

Another for the woman who has lost milk either through fear or through other mishap. Find a plant of burdock, and, kneeling, say the Pater Noster and the Ave Maria and say, 'Holy plant, through the power that God has given you, so may you give me some milk as you wish and not as much as you can.' First make over it the sign of the cross. Then pick 3 leaves and eat them. Then uproot the plant and let it dry. At once there will be so much milk that you will not know what to do with it. It has been tested.

Another to make milk come and increase in women. Take the green leaves of fennel and boil them with wine or with water. The woman should drink it at meals and before meals, as much as she can, and her milk will be plentiful. If she still suffers from retention of flow or has only ordinary flow, this is the usual medicine.

Another to make enough milk. Take 1 ounce each of mouse droppings and long pepper and make very fine powder and give it to the woman to drink with broth or wine with sugar and soon there will be as much as she will want and she will not need more.

Another for an illness of the nipples of the breasts. Take the yolks of 2 fresh eggs, 2 quatrini of clean wax, a little rose oil and a packet of zinc carbonate prepared with rose water. Incorporate everything on the fire in a clean little pot and when it is cool, spread it on a cloth and put it on the sore place. First wash it with white wine in which roses, plantain and leaves of the green olive have been cooked. Then dry the sore place and put the poultice on and you will heal it quickly.

So the breasts of women do not grow.

Take acacia juice and wet some fine cloths in it and put them on the breasts in the evening when you go to sleep and they will become smaller in a few days. If by chance you are not able to get some of this juice, take powdered frankincense and distemper it with strong vinegar and wet cloths in this and put them on the breasts and they will not grow any more and will always stay firm.

Another to make the breasts of women stay small and firm. Take seeds of poison hemlock, grind them and make fine powder and put this in strong vinegar. Wet linen cloths therein and in the evening put them on the breasts and they will stay small and firm. Likewise, take the hemlock juice made in the month of May and strong vinegar, each the same amount, mix them and in this wet the cloths and put them on. If you use this and wet them frequently, they will always be firm and white. It has been tested.

