Another, a water to tighten the vagina and for breasts that show up too long on the chest and wanting them to be firm and not soft. First take 1 handful each of sorb apples or its leaves or bark, pine nuts, wild plums, cornelian cherries, quinces, medlars or leaves and myrtle, half a handful of pomegranate flowers or rind of pomegranate, 3 ounces of rock alum, 4 ounces of pomegranate wine, 1 ½ handfuls of dry roses and 4 fresh eggs cooked in their shells. Put together the herbs and the pine nuts cut or bruised and do one incorporation of everything. Distill this in a glass still and save the distilled water in a glass bottle. This water has all the properties that nature can give to reduce all the external parts such as the vagina, by wetting some cloths and putting them in and out and binding them there. Also for lacerated breasts wet the cloths and put on 2 or 3 double folds. Also for wrinkles of the face, bathe in the evening and the morning. By treating heavily the wrinkles will be seen no more. Also wetting other parts of the body stiffens all the flesh. This is tested.

To tighten the vagina make powder of medlar leaves, incense and rock alum, 1 ounce of each, and put everything together in a little linen cloth, somewhat thin or yielding, wrap it and make a little ball and when you go to sleep put it in the vagina. Do this 6 to 8 times and you will see a good result, very likely with no more problem and your husband will be very content.

Another to draw milk quickly out of the breasts of women. Cook some mint in wine with some dill, each the same amount, and make a poultice and put it very warm on the breasts and soon the milk will come.

Another. If the breasts may be swollen with too much milk, put on a poultice only with mint and it will reduce the swelling.

Another to reduce any hardness and swelling of the breasts. Take 1 handful each of mallow and sweet violets and cook them in water. Then beat this with lard on a chopping board and put it warm on the abcess or soreness of the breasts or on any other place. Do this several times and soon the soreness will be reduced and go away.

Another to keep milk that is not being used so it will not come out of the breasts. Take cooked, minced beans and put them as a poultice on the breasts. They do not let the milk fall out from the breasts.

Another to break down a bad growth on a breast or in other places without cutting. Take flax seed and grind it well with 2 or 3 dry figs and make a poultice with honey and put it on in the morning and evening and soon the pain lifts and the place will break open by itself. It should break open or be resolved and go away and you will be free and cured of this illness.

To cure swollen testicles and a man's member that cannot be reversed and other infirmities of these.

Take 2 ounces each of old pork lard, laurel oil, camomile oil and rose oil and incorporate these things on a little fire. Then take crushed beans that are well cooked and well broken up and incorporate all the above things and make a poultice. Spread it on a leaf of cabbage and put under it a linen cloth and put it warm on the testicles or penis that is swollen and soon one will see a good cure. Also good for swelling of the testicles is to put on freshly ground rue. It helps considerably.

Another to reduce swelling of the testicles or penis resulting from any cause. Take equal amounts of flour of beans and rose oil with a little white wine and compound them together on the fire. Make a poultice in the usual way and spread it warm on a cloth and wrap it on so that it stays all night. Do this also in the morning and stay in repose and soon the swelling is reduced and the pain lifts and you are cured. It is tested.

Another for swelling of the testicles that has not been cured. Take some branches of elder and remove the outer bark. Then take the inner bark that is green. Then take a new brick that has not touched water and make it very hot and squirt it with good wine with this bark on it. It should stay until it is very flexible. Put this warm on the testicles and do it several times. Stay in repose and soon you will be cured.

