Another to cure the virile member that is irritated. Take 2 ounces of tartar from white wine, 1 ounce of dried rock alum and 2 drams each of dragon's blood gum, mastic, red sandalwood and incense and they should be made into very fine powder. Put this powder on the bad spot that is raw from inflammation or from other problems and soon it will be cured. For an inflamed penis, take ½ ounce each of litharge and incense, ½ dram of camphor and ½ ounce each of rose oil, rose water, violet oil and mother's milk and make an unguent of it and treat with this. Again, take sage and boil it in white wine and wash yourself with this. Then put on powder of hepatic aloe and soon you will be cured. Again, for the aforesaid illness, take 2 drams of rock alum, pomegranate rind and dry roses in the amount that you want, 2 spoonfuls of honey and 2 glasses of red wine and boil it in a little pot very slowly until it reduces 1/3 and wash yourself well with it warm. Then put on powder of tartar, cypress nuts and camphor, the amounts at your discretion, and soon it will be cured.

Another unguent for the inflamed penis. Take 1 ounce each of rose oil, white lead, litharge, burnt lead and rose water and incorporate everything in a lead mortar and do not heat it on the fire and it will be made. First make this lavage. Take 1 handful each of roses, long plantain and pomegranate rind, 2 drams of goat's rue, 5 drams of white tartar, 2 drams of rock alum, 5 ounces of rose honey and 1 dram of verdigris. Then take 3 lb. each of rose water, plantain water and nightshade water and boil all the above things until it is reduced 1/3. Then wash the inflamed or ulcerated penis with this tepid lavage. Then medicate with the above unguent. Do this in the morning and the evening and it will be cured rapidly.

To cure the member in which one is not able to reverse the foreskin and has pus in the tip.

Take 3 lb. of fresh white wine, 2 ounces of rose honey, ½ handful each of dried roses, camomile, mallow and myrtle, and 1 ounce of incense and boil everything together. Then squirt some of this boiled liquid, tepid, in the penis. Then wet a linen cloth in rose and violet oils and put it on the sore place in the tip. When you wish to reverse the skin, put on it this powder, viz., take ½ ounce of hepatic aloe, 3 drams of parched rock alum, 1 ounce of myrtle powder and make everything into fine powder and put it on the prepuce. By continuing this you will be cured.

Another lavage for the sore penis. Take 4 glasses of malvasia or good white wine and put in 1 dram each of dried rock alum, verdigris and saccharine alum. They should be finely pulverized. Wrap them in a thin linen cloth and put this to soak in the wine for at least 3 days and do not move it at any time until the end of the 3 days. Then remove it and hold the penis in this tepid lavage to soak for at least ½ hour. Then wet some cloths and bandage the penis and stay in repose. Do this in the morning and the evening and soon you will be cured.

To make a warm bath to relieve a spasm of pain, take a glass of white wine, a spoonful of honey, 2 drams of copper sulfate, ½ handful of dried roses and half a bowl of fine bran. Boil all these things in the wine and when they are thickened, put them on the sore place of the penis as warm as you can stand and soon it will lift the pain.

Another for the penis that has pus in the tip. Take equal amounts of pomegranate rind and myrtle and make very fine powder. But first wash the tip with warm wine with 1 ounce of rose water in it. Then put on some of this powder and it will help to remove the pus and the bad odor.

A lavage for illness of the penis with pus in any part. Take 1 ounce each of milk vetch, borage flowers, dried roses and dried violets, ½ ounce each of copper sulfate, verdigris and rock alum, 1 ½ ounces each of camomile flowers and myrtle, 6 ounces of raw honey and 3 jugs of good white wine. Boil everything together until it is reduced in half. Then strain it and save it for your needs. Bathe the penis in it several times with it tepid. Wet some cloths in it and put them on the sore place and soon you will be cured.

Another powder that is put in the opening of the penis. Take 1 ounce of incense, 3 drams of parched parchment and 2 drams of hepatic aloe and make very fine powder of them. Put it with skill in the opening of the penis and you will be cured.

Another preparation for the inflamed and infected penis. Take 6 ounces of rue seeds, 8 ounces of cumin, 2 ounces each of pepper and purslane. Make all of it into very fine powder and incorporate it with as much clean honey as needed on a slow fire and save it in a suitable bottle. When you go to sleep and early in the morning when you get up, take an amount the size of a chestnut and it will comfort the stomach and soon it will cure the illness of the penis.

Another for illness of the penis. Take flowers of God's flower and make fine powder and put it on the sick part several times and soon you will be cured. To reduce swelling, put on a leaf of cabbage with lard and the yolk of an egg.

Another to cure the penis of a man from any sickness. Take hepatic aloe, zinc oxide and burnt rock alum, each at your discretion, incorporate them and put this on the sore. Then put on Unguento bianco on a plaster.

Another powder that restores flesh on the penis. Take 1 ounce each of burnt copper and incense bark, ½ ounce each of mastic and zinc oxide and make very fine powder of it, well incorporated. Then put it in the cavities of the sores of the penis. By continuing this in the morning and evening, be sure you will soon be cured. You should know that these remedies have been tested, either a little or a lot.

To cure swellings in the groin, ulcers, warts, abcesses and other incurable sores.

Take 3 parts of ammonium chloride, 2 parts of hepatic aloe and fine sugar, and 1 part each of dried rock alum, verdigris and zinc carbonate and make everything into very fine powder. Incorporate it well and put some of this powder carefully in the opening of the swellings and do not touch other parts around because it will hurt you. You can use this in the vagina. Treat every morning and evening and soon this pain or smarting goes away and it is not felt any more. This powder has the property of breaking the root of the swelling so that it dies and it cures rapidly.

Another for the ulcers which usually come around the anus, the vagina, in the nose and on the tips of the fingers. Put on some of the above powder in the morning and in the evening and soon the ulcers will be cured. Also this powder is effective in removing all warts wherever they are found on the body. First make the wart bleed a little. Then put on some of this powder and the wart will go away. Also the powder destroys and cures any cancerous fistula, when it is put on in the morning and evening. It is true that in the beginning it does somewhat burn but that soon goes away and you will be cured rapidly and nevermore will suffer such pain. Also ammonium chloride works by itself alone.

Another to cure swelling in the groin and to remove warts on the penis. Take 2 ounces of tartar from white wine and ½ ounce of verdigris. Make fine powder and put it on the swellings or warts several times and they will go away.

Another to cure ulcers. First say 3 Pater Noster and 3 Ave Maria and this prayer for 3 mornings in a row and 3 times each morning. Say this, 'Go away ulcer, go away unfortunate thing. Go back ulcer. For the love of the Holy Mary, Mother of the saints and of the Holy Trinity, you must not return again.' Each time make the sign of the cross and say, 'In the name of the Father, Son and Holy Spirit, Amen.'

Another to cure ulcers. Take 1 lb. each of Roman vitriol and strong vinegar and cook them together until it is thickened. Then remove it from the fire and add 3 ounces of native sulfur, mix them together and make a powder. Put this on the canker or ulcer and it will be healed.

Another for canker. Take garlic with the skin on and crush it. Then put in a quantity of ground pepper and a little pulverized soot from the oven and incorporate them well. First wash the canker with tepid wine. Then put on the poultice which is the main medicine that works on canker and you will be rid of it.

Another to cure swellings on the groin or in whatever part it is wanted. Take 2 ounces of ordinary brandy for drinking, ½ ounce of ground fine sugar and as much flower of verdigris as will stand on a quatrino , and it should be in fine powder. Then put everything in a bottle and boil it in front of the fire for one miserere and it will be made. Then treat by bathing the swellings with a little cotton wool on the tip of a little stick of wood. Bathe them in the evening and the morning and wherever they are, they will disappear.

Another water for swellings on the groin or inflammation that comes in the private parts. Take 1 ½ drams of powdered verdigris and 2 ounces of powdered rock alum. Then take a vessel for the fire and fill it with the water that blacksmiths use to quench tools from the forge. Put in these powders and boil it for one hour. When it is cold, strain it finely and with this wash yourself very well with a little cotton wool where it hurts. It is true that it may make you begin to hurt again but that very soon disappears and you will be cured.

Another for pruritis in the penis of a man. Wash repeatedly with a decoction of wine wherein has been boiled sage, tamarind and myrtle and it will help you greatly. Also, ashes made of dried squash heal the sores of the infected penis. Also a decoction of wine wherein 1 handful each of olive leaves and dry roses have been boiled is used to wash the member carefully and repeatedly. Very soon it should be cured, wherever the pruritis is. Above all, live carefully and you will be cured.

To cure a fleshy growth on the penis of a man, even one that has been there a long time.

