Take the dregs of distilled honey or, not having such dregs, take a quantity of honey at your discretion and put it in a pot to roast. Then take these dark dregs and put them in another pot, well closed, and put it in a kiln for glass or pottery to calcine for 3 or 4 days and it should have a good fire. You will have a material as yellow as gold which is the best to use on every sore. It destroys the afflicted flesh and then alters and heals the good flesh and it does not hurt. Therefore it is much better to use for sores than the escharotics commonly used by the surgical doctors. Take some of this powder at your discretion and take 2 ounces of dog dung, ½ ounce of tartaric acid from white wine, 3 drams of fine sugar, and 1 dram each of dried rock alum and zinc oxide. Everything should be ground separately and made into very fine, almost impalpable, powder and incorporate everything together. Then have fronds of green olive. Grind them in a stone mortar and squirt them with white wine. When they are well ground, extract all the substance in the press and collect that and add again as much juice of plantain and put both together in a pot on the fire and put therein the powder made above, little by little, continually stirring. Finally add a little fresh wax and a little rose honey and make it like a liquid unguent and it will be made. Save it for your needs. This is very valuable for removing fleshy growths in the delicate eye where strong things that cause pain themselves are not needed. Also use it for the virile member, the vagina and the nose. When you wish to treat a fleshy growth in the penis, first wash into the virile member 2 or 3 times with the syringe filled with a lavage of white wine in which dry roses and plantain leaves have been boiled and mixed with a little mother's milk or goat's milk. To assure that it is washed well inside with this wine, the penis should be relaxed. Then have a little candle of wax of such size that it can enter the penis and on the tip of the candle make a little duct and put therein some of the unguent described above and send it in very slowly until it reaches the fleshy growth and there turn the candle so the unguent remains on the bad part to break it up without distress. Do this several times until it feels better, that is in the morning and evening, and stay quiet with the body upright. In a few days you will find yourself healed and content.

Another, a cold unguent for soreness of the member. Take 3 ounces of white lead washed with rose water, 2 ounces each of zinc carbonate and hepatic aloe, 6 grains of camphor, 3 ½ ounces of oil of roses and 2 ½ ounces of mutton fat and make an unguent of all these things without heating. If you use this you will not feel any sensation of burning and it will warm you well and cure you.

To cure the itching or pruritis that comes around the testicles.

Sometimes between the thigh and the skin of the testicles a rash develops from a scratch with a scab in this skin that is very uncomfortable and you want to cure it. Take 2 ounces of washed turpentine, 3 ounces of crushed white lead, 1 ounce of washed butter, 1 ½ ounces each of juice of purslane and of nightshade, 2 scruples of camphor, 1 ounce of oil of roses, and ½ ounce of white wax and make a very soft unguent. In the evening when you go to sleep, rub yourself well between the legs with linen cloth that should stay on and you will see a good result. Before you rub it, you want to put cups on the buttocks. Follow the rules and soon you will be cured. You know that you should not eat warming things, nor pork meat, nor sour things, nor legumes if you want to be cured rapidly. Doing this you will be cured. It has been tested.

To cure the penis of a man and soon by observing the rules given with these remedies.

