Take 1 handful each of mallow, dried roses and myrtle and cook them in wine and put it on the penis in the form of a warm poultice and you will cure this rapidly. To treat and cure the penis if it is broken open, take hepatic aloe and pulverized myrrh and put this on but first rub with rose and violet oils. If there are warts or swellings in the groin, take some cabbage juice or some cabbage water. Washing with that helps greatly. If the penis is cankered, ulcerated or fistulous, take 1 dram each of pepper and aloe and ½ dram of ammonium chloride made into very fine powder and incorporate these and put this on and it will soon remove this illness. If the penis is inflamed, rub with laurel and violet oils. Although it may make you smart a little, do not stop rubbing for that reason because the ointment is very perfect. First purge the sick person each week completely with pills of agaric because it breaks up the humors so they cannot run in the penis.

Sometimes the penis of man becomes swollen, ulcerous, abcessed, festered and fistulous from various causes such as those that come from one's own daily actions that cause damage because the young man does not consider what may arise from his daily pleasure. Note that the man who has sickness in this member must want to be cured completely, quickly and well. Know that it is expedient for him to live his life more or less as if he had a continuous fever, because the member is very excitable. It senses immediately what you have eaten and that affects its action. If you eat things harmful, it feels that at once and you will be aware of it because you will feel the pain. Therefore you need to eat all things cooling and do not drink wine, nor eat fruit, nor sour things, nor legumes, nor wheat, nor pork meat, nor make use of women because all these things are very harmful. Eat broth with eggs, bread soup with almond milk or melon seeds, fresh eggs, young chickens and other delicate meat and barley water or boiled water with nothing added until it begins to cure. If you do otherwise, you will have trouble.

