Another for smarting of the penis and for one who urinates blood. Take 1 ounce each of mallow, leaves of olive and of willow, violets, celandine, dried roses, sage, scabiosa, plantain, bugloss, barley and pomegranate rind, 2 scruples each of saffron and hepatic aloe, 4 ounces of honey and enough white vinegar and boil these things until it is reduced 1/3. Then press all the herbs well under the press and extract all the substance and put everything together and make a least a jug of this boiled liquid. Put one part warm in a little bowl and soak in it the relaxed penis of one who has a sore place and of one who urinates blood and it will soon stop. When you go to sleep, wet some cloths in the liquid and wrap the penis. Do this several times and soon you will be cured of smarting of the penis and urinating blood. But do not eat harmful things, but eat all cooling things. Do not eat salted vegetables nor salted meat and do not drink wine and you will be freed. You should know that sickness comes to a man's member sometimes through the misery of any rash around the prepuce that is scratched and that becomes a nodule developing infection. If the man does not clean himself well, in that case boils and irritation arise and the man rubs them and the humor moves in and makes the illness arise. This also develops in the vagina of the woman more easily than in the man because she cannot clean herself as the man can. Therefore she should be prudent in everything regarding similar matters. Be advised to use the above boiled liquid in the way said above and you will always stay clean and will live without fear and be content.

Tested aid for one who defiles himself in sleep.

Take betony and burdock and make juice of them and drink it and you will not suffer from polluted sleep. If you wish to test this, give a rooster a taste of the juice and he will not tread on hens for 8 days.

Against nocturnal ejaculations. Write on the right arm these words. 'My death has saved the people whom Eve has bound,' and make a cross on the chest. This is tested. Do not eat warming things and you will not stumble.

