Another to break up hemorrhoids both within and without. Take equal amounts of honey and liquid varnish, 2 drams of fresh butter and ½ dram of fine theriac and boil the honey, varnish and butter on a slow fire until it is thickened. Then remove it from the fire and put therein the theriac and 2 scruples of saffron and incorporate these well and it will be made. Save it for your needs. When you wish to treat with it, warm it and rub the hemorrhoids well with a feather inside and out and soon they will be broken and let out blood. Nature is cleaned in that way and you will not feel any more distress from the hemorrhoids and, through the grace of God, you will be cured if you observe the prescriptions and the rules already given above, especially to purge and cool yourself inside with distilled waters and rose honey or syrups and then a pure laxative to drink to cool you. Take care also that your living be regular in everything. Do not eat warming things which rapidly stimulate hemorrhoids, but use all things cooling which retard the hemorrhoids. If you wish to learn better how to take care of yourself, test this and you will learn at your expense as some have done. If you will follow what has been said above, you will always stay healthy of such infirmity. It has been completely tested.

*To cure the illness of ulcer or carbuncle. Say, “When Christ was born, the plant and water asked Christ for a gift. 'I ask that you give me grace so I can cure the illness of ulcer or carbuncle.' Christ said, 'You have said it.' + In the name of the Father, Son and Holy Spirit, Amen. + + +.” And you want to say these words 5 times for 5 mornings over the ulcer with a Pater Noster and it will be cured.

*To cure the ulcer. Say 3 Pater Noster and say this 3 times a morning for 3 mornings, viz., 'Go away sickness of ulcer, go away unfortunate thing. Turn back sickness of ulcer, for the love of the Holy Mary, mother of all the saints and of the Holy Trinity. So you must not go on any more.' + + + . Take agrimony and lard and put it warm on the ulcer with 3 Pater Noster and say the prayer above and soon you will be cured.

