*Another for hemorrhoids. Take 9 fresh crayfish from the river, grind them and put them in a pot with 1 lb. of rose oil, 2 scruples of incense and ½ ounce of clean wax. Boil this until it is reduced one third. Then strain it and press it well and save it. Use it warm and rub inside and out and soon you will be cured. It has been tested.

*Another to cure the illness of an ulcer. Say a Pater Noster over the sick place and say, '+ The ulcer has grown but was not planted. God lives. Die ulcer. + Father, Son and Holy Spirit.'

A wonderfully drying ointment for erysipelas.

Take 2 ounces of rose oil, 1 ounce of rose water, ½ ounce of rose vinegar and 3 ounces of mother's milk. Put everything together and wet some fine linen cloths and put them on the erysipelas and soon this will lift the pain.

Also, you can do this other. Take 2 bowls of barley and boil it in a scant 3 flasks of water from a river and put therein 1 ounce of rock alum and 1 handful of dry red roses and reduce it in half. Then strain this water. First rub the erysipelas with rose oil and wet some cloths in this water and put them on the sick place 2 or 3 times a day and soon you will cure the erysipelas. Take care of the way you live.

Another to remove erysipelas rapidly wherever it is. Take the center of a loaf of white bread and cook it in water. When it is cooked, remove it to a little plate and mix it wht rose oil and the yolk of a fresh egg. Do this 3 times a day and before you put it on the inflammation, spit 3 times in your hand and say a Pater Noster with the Ave Maria to the patient and take a little stick of wood or of broom and write with the spit 3 times around the erysipelas, 'Jesus of Nazareth, King of Judea,' with the sign of the cross. Then put on the bread crumb mixture, very warm, and let it stay on for 24 hours. Do this for 3 days and it will be clean and cured. It has been shown by me that as soon as the mixture was on the sick place, it removed my pain, but I did not drink wine and ate very lightly and I was cured.

Another, a perfect remedy for choler. Take equal amounts of rose and violet oils and ordinary oil and elder bark of the white kind. Boil everything together on a slow fire. Add ½ ounce of clean wax and 1 ounce of powdered white lead and incorporate everything together until it forms and unguent and it will be made. Add 2 scruples of camphor and rub with this in the evening and morning and soon you will be cured. Take care of yourself, do not eat warming things and do not drink wine for 3 days and you will be cured.

Another, a wonderful ointment for salt phlegm. Take 1 dram each of male incense, white lead, sulfur and hepatic aloe and 2 drams each of rose oil and white vinegar. Put the oil and the vinegar on a slow fire and as it begins to boil, put in the above things, all made into fine powder and ½ dram of clean wax, and when it has acquired enough body, remove it from the fire and stir until it is cold and it will be made, a marvelous ointment. Use it to rub the sore places of the phlegm in the evening and morning and soon you will be cured of it.

