Take 6 lb. of good white wine and put it in a pot and put therein 1 handful each of dry roses, pomegranate rind and fine bran, half a loaf of bread crumbs and 5 ounces of old butter and boil this very slowly until it becomes in the form of a poultice. Then place it carefully on a cloth. But first rub the itch or other irritation that you may have with warm rose oil. Then put on this poultice, very warm. Do this several times and soon you will be cured.

Another for a sore developing on the leg or a swollen sore. Take 2 handfuls of the herb nervarola , that is goat's rue, and a bucket of fish bones from the head and boil with the herb until it is reduced 1/3. Then with this boiled liquid, warm, wash the leg and keep the leg in the warm bath not less than an hour and the longer you hold it soaking the sooner it will be cured. Do this bathing at least 2 or 3 times a day and with longer times it will be cured sooner. Dry the leg with a fine cloth and do not handle it roughly and put on some of this herb cooked in the form of a warm plaster at least 2 times a day. When you wish to medicate with this digestive, this is the unguent: take 3 ounces of raw honey, 2 ounces of turpentine, the yolks of 2 eggs and enough rose oil to make an unguent. Then spread it on cloths or on threads and put it on the sore place. If by chance the tissue is growing, take some powdered sage and burnt rock alum and incorporate them and put this on the sore and it will break away the fleshy growth because this powder is the most appropriate to remove excess flesh. Also you should continue to medicate with this digestive until the sore has recovered well and is clean. Then put on your excellent poultice or a poultice of diapalma which draws tissues together and heals them and soon you will be cured. But do not eat things that are harmful, such as sour things, wheat or pork meat. Drink little wine and eat things that cool the liver. You should know that the herb goat's rue in a case like this will bring you great honor. It has been tested.

Another to cure the leg of any infirmity, even if it is old. Take 2 scruples of saltpeter and a flask of water from turbid rivers or streams and boil until it reduces 1/3. Remove it from the fire and let it clear. Then strain it and save it in a clean vessel. First wash the leg with red wine wherein sage was boiled. Dry it lightly. Then wet 2 or 3 linen cloths in the liquid and put them on the sore place, one on the other. Put thereon a poultice of powdered lead that is bigger than the sore place and bind it on. Do this 2 times a day and soon you will be cured. If the sickness is serious, you want to regulate your life well. Know that, with the aid of God, soon you will be cured. This has been tested.

*This white unguent of white lead is powerful for blows and swelling of the eyes and for a bruise. Take equal amounts of white lead and turpentine and 1 part of mercury to 3 parts of pork drippings and incorporate everything in a pottery vessel with a spatula and without fire and it will be made. Then rub it on and put on nothing else and soon you will be cured. This has been tested.

Very precious unguent for the legs.

