Take 3 drams each of yellow litharge and white lead, 1 dram each of Armenian red clay and clay from Lemnos, 2 drams each of white wax, nightshade juice and strong white vinegar, 1 ½ drams of camphor and 1 ounce of fresh rose oil. All these things should be made into very fine powder. Incorporate them together with the oil, vinegar, wax, white lead, Armenian clay, litharge, clay from Lemnos and the juice. Let it cook until it is perfected, stirring constantly. Then remove it from the fire and put in the camphor and stir until it is cold and it will be made, a perfect unguent to cure any illness of the leg. You will cure with it rapidly.

To cure the legs where there are sores.

Take 6 ounces of twice-distilled brandy and 1 ounce of finely cut camphor and put them in an ampule, well stoppered, and melt the camphor in the sun or on the fire, keeping it well stoppered with cotton wool and parchment. When the camphor is melted, wet a little linen cloth in this water and bathe around the sore very gently and clean it inside well. Then wet another little cloth in this water and press it out and put it on the sore. Put on a poultice of powdered lead, large enough so the sore is covered. When you medicate, clean the sore well inside and out and you will soon cure it.

Another to cure the legs. Take 2 ounces of oil of egg yolk, 2 drams of active sulfur and 1 ounce of pork lard and incorporate everything together in the form of an unguent and put it on the sores and you will cure them. If the sores are old, take 1 ounce each of hops, betony, scabiosa, cinquefoil, greater and lesser comfrey and old wine or strong vinegar and grind everything together and put it on warm in the form of a poultice. By doing this several times you will cure the leg. Put on this unguent: take 4 ounces of clean wax, ½ ounce of turpentine, 3 drams of incense, 2 drams of white lead and 2 ounces each of oil of roses and of violets and ordinary oil. Incorporate these with a slow fire and you will have made the unguent. Treat with this and you will cure.

