If the sore or wound may or may not be fatal, say and have the patient say 5 Pater Noster with the Ave Maria. Take some fine linen cloth and make it in the sign of a cross on the sick place and say these holy words, 'In the name of the Father, Son and Holy Spirit, Amen. Christ was born the night of the virgin birth. Christ was lost. Christ was found. Jesus Christ died and was resurrected. Lord Jesus Christ, heal this sore so that it cannot putrefy nor increase. As were the wounds that were made in his precious leg and in that precious side, so may mine be delivered from any fever.' In praise and reverence, make the sign of the cross. 'In the name of the Father, Son and Holy Spirit, Amen.' Do this twice a day until it is cured.

Another for a developing sore breaking open with pain. Take 1 handful each of mallow, sweet violets, leaves of elder, rue and plantain. Make juice of these herbs and put it in a pot and cook it on the fire and strain it carefully. Then put in 1 ounce of new rose oil, 4 drams each of mallow, turpentine and white tar, 1 dram of saffron and as much wheat flour as needed with a little melted lard to make a poultice. Put this warm on the developing sore on the leg or on the body wherever it is. Change it frequently and very soon your pain will be relieved and you will stay free of it and healthy.

Another for sickness in the leg. Take a flask of sweet white wine, half a flask of lye and a bowl of husked and clean barley and put these in a pot and boil until it is reduced 2/3. Then strain it and mash the barley and mix it together. Put therein 2 ounces of ground rock alum and 2 drams of camphor mixed with almond oil. That is, take 3 or 4 almonds, blanch them and grind them between 2 stones and press them. Extract as much oil as you will require to mix it because if you were to use more oil, the camphor would go up in fumes and be lost. When you want to treat, warm it and wet cloths and put them on the sore place. Do this several times and soon the legs will be cured.

Unguent for every malady of the body.

