Take 4 ounces of washed turpentine, 2 ounces of thick pine tar, 3 ounces each of mallow and butter, 5 ounces of burnt lead, 2 ½ ounces of zinc oxide, 1 ½ ounces of white incense, 5 ½ ounces of white wax and 8 ounces each of rose oil and strong rose vinegar. Take the oil and the vinegar and put them in your pot and put in half a handful each of rue, celandine, elder and goat's rue and boil until it reduces 1/3. Then strain it and press the herbs well, extracting the substance. Put them back in the pot and put therein all the other things, little by little, stirring constantly. Remove it from the fire and incorporate things well, stirring until it is cold and it will be made. Use it at your pleasure.

Another unguent for the legs. Take 8 ounces of fat of male goat, 3 drams of turpentine, 4 drams of rose honey, 2 ½ drams of clean wax, 1 dram each of sarcocol gum and incense and 2 ounces of rose oil. Compound everything on a slow fire, as you have made the above unguents. When you have medicated the leg, put on a linen cloth wet with warm red wine. Do this several times and you will have a rapid cure.

Another, a noble unguent for many infirmities. Take 2 lb. of powdered human blood, 4 lb. of hepatic aloe, 6 ounces of sarcocol gum, 4 ounces each of juniper resin, gum ammoniac, galbanum, lard, pitch, mastic, bdellium, glue, tartar, incense, turpentine, Armenian red clay, dragon's blood gum, ordinary oil and clean wax. First clean the gums and make powder of those things that can be made into fine powder. Make the unguent on the fire in the usual way, incorporating well all the above things. When you remove it from the fire, stir until it is cold and it will be made. Use it at your pleasure. It will bring you honor when you use it because great effectiveness is in it and it will work well for you.

.

Tested remedy for swelling of the legs.

Take 3 ounces each of juice of sage, of nettle, of absinthe and of betony, and rose oil, 2 ounces each of flour of spelt, naval pitch and new wax, 1 ounce each of fat from an ass and Armenian red clay and compound all these things with a little fire and stir continuously so they are well incorporated. It should not be too hard, and it will be made. Then use it to rub the legs in the evening when you go to sleep. Do not get overtired and you will be cured. Be careful of what you eat. Do not eat salted food, nor sour things, nor pork meat. Eat all things good for you and soon you will be cured. This has been tested.

Another for a malady from fracture of the leg or in other places. Take a leaf of dock and put it on the sore place and bind it on so that it will stay there, because this herb has the effect that it always draws out matter and cleanses the sore. After several days, if the sore is clean, now it needs to join. Take a quantity of these leaves and grind them and extract the juice and put it in a basin and let it rest a while and it will develop on top a kind of colored water. Throw this away and save the dregs and dry them and make fine powder of them. Put this on the sores that are clean. It also helps many other sores greatly. Put on a little each time and soon they will be cured.

If you will put on the sores of the legs some of the herb hound's tongue or some of the erba ciciliana, that is a kind of honeysuckle, and continue to treat 2 times a day, soon the wound of the leg will be joined. Drink wine very temperately and you will be cured quickly.

Another unguent to join sores on the legs. Take 6 ounces of ground white lead, 1 lb. of rose oil, 4 ounces of litharge, 5 ounces of white wax and 3 ½ ounces of powdered hepatic aloe. When the oil begins to boil, then put in the white lead, the litharge and the wax and, when it is cooked, remove it from the fire and put therein the aloe. Continue to stir until it is cold so that everything is well incorporated and it will be made.

Another unguent for any sore on the legs. Take 1 ounce each of oil of wormwood and of laurel, pine tar, incense and elemi gum and ½ ounce of white wax. Put the oil, the tar and the wax to boil and when they are well incorporated, strain it and put it again to boil for ½ hour. Then put therein the powdered elemi gum and let it boil very slowly. Then put in the incense and at once remove it from the fire and with a stick or rod stir until it becomes cold and it will be made.

(One remedy here is not readable.)

Another, a perfect and good unguent for maladies of the leg. Take 1 ounce each of rose oil, fir tree oil and yellow litharge, ½ ounce of powdered white lead and 2 drams each of mastic and incense. Then take 4 ounces of butter and wash it in 9 waters and also wash the fir oil and make the other things into fine powder. With a little fire, make an unguent with ½ ounce of new wax and it will be made, a most perfect unguent. Save it. The first thing, wash the sore with tepid red wine and when it is dry, use your unguent to cool and close the sore. Many doctors use this unguent.

Another universal unguent for the legs. Take l lb. of rose oil, 6 ounces of strong white vinegar, 2 ounces of new wax and 3 drams each of white lead and white litharge. Make the oil and the vinegar boil very slowly until the vinegar is reduced. Put in the wax and as it melts, remove it from the fire and add the white lead and litharge. Then return it to a very slow fire and stir continuously with your spatula until it is sufficiently cold and it will be made. Then store it.

*Another to cure a leg judged impossible to cure. Take 3 ounces of the leaves of dwarf elder and make juice, 1 ounce of strong white vinegar and wheat flour and incorporate in the form of a sauce. First wash the sore with wine boiled with oily herbs and wet some cloths in this composition and treat the sore leg 2 times a day and soon you will cure it. This is tested.

Very perfect lavage for maladies of the leg.

Take 4 flasks of good white wine and put therein one bowl of clean barley and boil this for ½ hour. Then put in 1 handful each of pomegranate rind and dry roses, 2 scruples each of chopped white lead and powdered zinc carbonate and let it boil again for ½ hour. Remove it from the fire and put in 1 scruple of red sugar, 4 scruples of cut up camphor, 2 ounces of powdered rock alum, and 1 ounce of yellow litharge. Stir continuously until it is cold. Then strain it, pressing the dregs well and the lavage will be made. Save it in 2 glass flasks. When you want to treat with it, warm it and wet therein a linen cloth and wash the sore on the leg and dry it well. Then put on the brutto bon plaster, that is diaquilon , with a pad of dry threads on the sore. Medicate in this way 2 times a day and in a few days you will be cured, if you will watch what you eat. Especially do not touch pork meat because it is bad for illnesses of the leg. Use very little wine, well-watered, and do not eat salted things and few sour things and in a short time you will be cured.

Make this beverage to cure the legs. Take 2 flasks of water and 1 handful of goat's dung and boil this until it reduces 1/3 or a little more. Remove it from the fire and let it cool. Then strain it finely. Take 4 ounces of the decoction and put in 1 ounce of theriac and incorporate it. Make it hot and give it to the patient with the bad leg early in the morning and let him repose one hour. You know this beverage is very good for the liver from which comes all maladies of the legs. Use some of this beverage every morning and soon you will be cured. Drink watered wine and be regulated in all other things and you will be cured.

For the leg that is swollen. Take white dove dung and boil it with strong vinegar and put this warm on the swollen leg. Do this 2 or 3 times and soon you will cure it.

