Take 1 ounce each of burnt lead, antimony and litharge, 1 dram each of zinc oxide and camphor, 3 ounces of rose oil, 6 ounces of long plantain juice and 2 ounces each of butter and clean wax. First take the oil, the juice, the butter and the wax and boil it a little. Then put in the lead, antimony, litharge and zinc oxide and let it boil until it is thickened, stirring repeatedly. Remove it from the fire and put therein the camphor, cut minutely, and stir continuously until it becomes cold, and it will be made, a very cooling and drying unguent of lead for sore legs. It will bring you honor.

Another, an unguent for old sores of the leg. Take 4 ounces of old lard from a male pig, 3 ounces of brown laundry soap, 1 ounce of very fine white sulfur, 2 ½ ounces of raw honey and 1 ounce of clean wax. First take the lard and melt it and put in the soap, the honey, the wax and the sulfur and incorporate everything together well on a low fire and stir continuously for a half hour. Then remove it from the fire and strain it through coarse cloth and it will be made. First wash the sore with warm wine in which is boiled rose and sage and dry it. Then medicate it and soon you will cure. Over it say this prayer. First make the sign of the cross. Say, ' + Christ conquers, + Christ rules, + Christ orders +. Christ defend you from all ills. God in his name may save you and in his compassion free you. From the side of our Lord Jesus Christ came blood and water. I entreat you, blood and wound, by the side and spear with which the side of our Lord Jesus Christ was pierced, that blood may not go forth and it may be stopped. + Agios + Sanctus fortis + Sanctus immortalis + Otheos + Yschiros + Athanatos + Eleyson + Imas. Sanctus dominus + Sanctus fortis + et Sanctus immortalis + Thetragramaton + . O, may the Son, Jesus Christ, have compassion and clean and heal the side, who well may do it. In the name of the Father, Son and Holy Spirit, + Amen.' Say the Pater Noster and soon it will be healed. It has been tested.

Another for infected legs. Put the herb smart weed on the sore leg but first wash it with white wine in which has been boiled some of this herb. Wash it with the warm wine and dry it carefully and bind on some of the leaves of the herb. Treat it 2 times a day and soon you will cure.

Also put the leaf of milk vetch, ground between two lodestones, on the cut or other malady of the leg or on the body. Treat 2 times a day and soon it will heal because this has been tested.

Also for old sores. Put on the sore place the back of the leaf of the wild cucumber and you will cure it rapidly, first washing the sore with warm white wine, as described above.

Also to dry up sores. Take 1 ounce or more each of rose honey and powder of white lead, according to the size of the malady, and incorporate them well together and put it on the sore place, simply with some yarn, and soon you will cure it.

