Another, a white unguent for the legs or other sores. Take 6 ounces each of oil of roses and violets, 1 ½ ounces of white wax and newly-slaked lime washed with clear water. Dry the lime and make 2 ounces of very fine powder from it. Boil the oil and wax until it is well melted and stirred together. Then remove it from the fire and put therein the powdered lime and stir until it becomes cold and it will be made to serve your needs. It will bring you honor in every sore of the leg and even on the body. Doctors often use this for treating.

Unguent of lead for the legs.

Take 2 lb. of clean lead and put it in a crucible and put in some sulfur. Put it in the fire to heat until it becomes powder. Then take 4 ounces each of rose oil and yellow litharge and put the litharge in strong vinegar for one night to soften. Put it with the oil in a pot with ½ ounce of powdered soot and 3 drams of white wax and then put in the powder. Make it barely hot in the pot and at once remove it from the fire and stir until it becomes cold. Then put it one more time on the fire and do the same and it will be made.

Another of lead, also for the legs. Take ½ ounce each of mastic and incense, 1 ounce each of litharge and burnt lead and 3 ounces of white lead. All the above things should be in fine powder. Put them in a mortar with 4 ounces of rose oil and 3 ounces of strong vinegar and incorporate well with the pestle. As you continue to mix around in the mortar, the unguent will develop. If needed, add oil and vinegar as above and you will have a good and wonderful unguent.

Another unguent for fracture or bruise. Take 3 ounces each of white lead, incense and mastic and 1 ounce of litharge and make an unguent of everything in the mortar. First they should be made into powder and then compounded with enough rose oil and vinegar. Use the pestle well, as is customary, and it will be made.

Another for a heated condition. Take 6 ounces of white lead, 2 ounces of litharge, both reduced to powder, and 1 lb. of rose oil and 2 ounces of white wax. Compound these on a slow fire and when it is cooked, remove it from the fire and put therein 2 scruples of camphor, always mixing until it is cold and it will be done.

Another unguent for an infected leg and it heals any sores difficult to cure. Take 2 ounces of zinc oxide, 1 dram each of white litharge, white lead and sarcocol gum, 1 ounce of rose oil and as much wax as is needed to give it body. Reduce the above things to powder. Put the oil, the gum and the wax on the fire and when these are melted, put in the other things. Let it stand for a little and remove it from the fire and it will be made.

