Another for every sore on the leg, old or new. Take 1 handful of the herb agrimony and grind it and boil it in white wine and also add 1 handful of dried roses and boil it for one miserere. Wash the sore inside and out with this warm wine. Take 1 ounce each of mummy, long birthwort, round birthwort, mastic, myrrh, dragon's blood gum, hepatic aloe, zinc carbonate and braised squash and 2 drams of Armenian red clay. Grind these as finely as you can, and put it on the sore like a spice powder. First wash the sore with the herbs that were boiled in wine and put the powder on the sore in the form of a warm plaster. Bind it on so that it stays and stays warm. Do this 2 times a day and you will see a wonderful result. Even if the sore shows the bone, you will cure it soon.

*Another to treat a sore without festering and without pain. Take rose oil and fir tree oil, that is the tears, as much of one as the other, and distill them together in a glass still on a slow fire. Then save it in a glass bottle, well closed, and use it when there is need. This oil never allows festering and does not cause pain and the sore may be cured rapidly.

Lavage to heal and clean sores of the legs.

Take 2 flasks of water from a stream or fountain and put therein a bowl of barley and boil it until it reduces in half. Put in 2 ounces of rock alum and 1 ounce of crushed white lead and boil for at least one miserere. Then remove it from the fire and strain it and press the barley well so that the substance goes into the decoction and save this in a glass bottle. When you want to treat, take a little in a small pot and warm it and wet some linen cloths in it and put them on the sores of the leg. Do this several times and you will cure the sores quickly. It even helps those sores that come on the head, wetting them with the cloths.

Another lavage for sores of the legs. Take 2 glasses of the urine of a healthy man or child, 2 ounces of raw honey and ½ ounce of rock alum and put everything together in a small pot and make it boil very slowly. Wash the sores of the legs with this lavage and let it dry in place. Then take clean marsh mallow roots and first remove the heart from the center and dry them and make very fine powder. When the sore has been well dried after lavage, put thereon enough of the powder, like a spice. Then put the medicated cloth on the sore in an appropriate size for the sore on the leg. By continuing this, you will cure it soon.

Medicated cloths to heal sore legs.

Take 6 ounces of fresh rose oil, 1 ½ ounces each of cinnabar and litharge and 1 ounce each of incense and burnt rock alum. Put the oil on the fire in a pot and put therein the cinnabar and when it wants to boil, put in the litharge and after it boils a little it will become dark. Then put in the incense and the rock alum. When you see it has incorporated well, put in your cloths to dress sores, as many as you want, and stir them well with a stick in this unguent until they are soaked. Then remove them, still warm, and spread them to dry in the shade and they will be made, medicated cloths. Put these cloths on all sores of the leg and they will comfort greatly and cure them rapidly.

Another medicated cloth to make easily. Take 1 lb. of rose oil, 4 ounces each of yellow litharge and white lead and 2 ounces of clean wax. Pulverize and incorporate everything and cook it well on a low fire. When it is well incorporated, soak your cloths well therein. When they are cold, use them to treat.

To make a medicated cloth. Take 3 ounces each of beef suet, crushed white lead and clean wax and when it is melted, dip in your cloths and they will be made and dry them.

Another medicated cloth. Take 6 ounces each of ordinary oil and rose oil, 5 ounces of white lead and 1 ounce each of diaquilon and powdered St. John's wort. Put everything in a pot to compound them and when it becomes dark, that is a sign that it is cooked. Then put in your cloths for medicating and soak them well in this composition. When they have picked it all up, remove them and put them to dry in the shade so that the powder does not all shake off and they will be made. Use them as you wish.

Very fine plaster to clear up sores.

