Another unguent for every sore. Take 3 ounces each of white wax, pine pitch and turpentine, 1 ounce each of incense, mastic, Syrian storax, and round birthwort, 2 ounces of elemi gum, 6 ounces each of juice of betony and of tansy and fresh rose oil. First put in the pot the oil, juices and wax and incorporate them. Then put in all the other things, made into powder in the usual way, little by little and incorporate well with your rod so it does not burn and let it boil enough so that you know it is cooked. Remove it from the fire and continue stirring while it cools and it will be made and perfect.

Another unguent for sores. Take equal amounts of celery, rosemary, sage, rue, tansy, plantain, lorenzana , marigold, wormwood and honeysuckle and make juice of all and take as much of each one as the other and put them together and take 2 lb. of olive oil and incorporate with the juices and before you put it on the fire, put in 2 drams of galbanum gum and 1 ounce of verdigris. Then put it on the fire and boil it a little with care and put in 6 ounces of clean wax. Remove it from the fire and continue to stir until it is cold and it will be made, a very worthy unguent that will bring you honor.

A cooling unguent for erysipelas, that is the burning rash, or other rash.

Take 2 ounces each of rose oil, strong white vinegar, chopped white lead and juice of rue, 1 ounce of goat fat and ½ ounce of white wax and compound these on a slow fire and make a soft unguent and it will be done. Wet some fine linen cloths in this and put them on the sore places and by continuing this, the rash will soon be resolved and you will cure it. This has been tested.

Another for the burning rash. Take 1 ½ ounces each of juice of fumitory, of dodder, of hops and of spleenwort and roots of elecampane and boil them in good white wine. When they are well cooked, extract them and grind them. Then incorporate them with the above juices. Put this again on the fire and put in 1 ounce of pork fat and ½ ounce of clean wax and let it boil very slowly until it begins to have a little body. Remove it from the fire and it will be made. See that it is rather soft and use it in the way described above. It is powerful not only in the burning rash but for every salt humor, if it is that kind of humor.

Triaparma unguent, very cooling.

