Another for sores or cuts that spurt blood. Take some dung from the ass and some rabbit fur and cut everything finely and pulverize it and put it on the sore, firm and thick, so the blood that is not able to stop flowing will soon be staunched. Then medicate it as usual with unguents and it will be cured. Say over it these words, 'Cross of Christ aid me. + Blood stay in yourself as Christ did in himself. Christ save me. Blood stay in your vein as Christ did in his grief. + Christ protect me. Blood stay fixed and strong as Christ did in his death. Father, Son and Holy Spirit, Amen.' Carry it with you and say it 3 times in a row and the blood will be stopped.

More to staunch blood from sores, wounds or veins. Take sarcocol gum, mummy, Armenian red clay and dragon's blood gum, each the same amount, and make everything into very fine powder and incorporate them together and put this on sores, wounds and also on a vein from which the blood is not able to stop flowing. Put on enough and soon the blood will be staunched. Then medicate with unguents.

Unguent that distends contracted nerves, be it either from cold or heat, that is through obstruction of nerves through humors that discend from the head to the part of the nerve in such a way that they may impede the heat and the nerve fails and is contracted, debilitated or paralyzed. Take 4 drams each of the fats of bear, horse, duck, goat, badger, ass and mutton, 2 drams each of gum ammoniac, juniper gum, bdellium, incense and ivy gum and 1 dram each of powder of mountain mint, pennyroyal, catmint, gratiana , St. John's wort, white dittany, cut-up lemon rind, lavender cotton, white iris, amber and French lavender. First cut up all the fats, melt them and strain them, dissolve all the gums and strain them and make all the herbs into powder and mix them. Incorporate the above 3 groups together and put all of it to fill a male cat or a duck. But in truth, it is better to put them in a young, male red dog, because a Carthusian friar told me that a gentleman's son who was much crippled was cured and one of the friars received 40 dinari from that gentleman for having freed his son, through God's grace. He told me that he had cleaned a young red dog for roasting and he filled it with aromatic things. He said that he had not recorded the things that he put in but he knew well that he cured him with the fat that he collected from that dog roasted specifically to aid that youth. Then after this he had them say a mass of the Holy Spirit. However, it seems to me that it will be best to take a red dog and put in all of the above ingredients and roast it on a spit and when it is well cooked, to collect all the fat that drains from the back because in this exists all the virtue. Value it and save it in a clean glass vessel. Then incorporate this fat with these unguents, viz. Take 1 ounce each of Marciaton unguent , Aragon unguent and Agrippa unguent and 2 ounces each of marsh mallow and laurel oil. Incorporate these unguents with the strained fat on a very slow fire. When you have incorporated them well, you will have made your ointment, perfect and good, and this is the preparation from the Reverend Priest himself. When you want to treat the above infirmity, heat it and rub the sick person in front of a good fire. Then wrap it with unwashed wool with other warm cloths around it and put it to stay on and do this with the ointments several times and you will see a wonderful effect. This is very true and it is tested.

Another oil powerful for the above, tried and true for retracted nerves with pain and spasms. Take flowers of privet, that is vistrici , and fill a pot. Then fill it with ordinary oil and boil it before the fire until it reduces one half or more. Strain it and press the flowers well and keep it for 3 or 4 days in the sun and it will be made and keep it with care. When you want to treat, make it warm to rub the nerves that have pain and spasm and put on unwashed wool. Soon you will be restored to health.

Another unguent for the nerves. Take 2 ounces each of oils of mastic, of myrtle, of quince and of lavender, 1 ounce of mastic, ½ ounce of celery seed, 3 drams each of hypocistis and acacia, 5 drams of liquid storax and enough clean wax to make an unguent. Rub the painful nerves using warm, unwashed wool and you will be cured.

