Another similar unguent. Take 1 ounce each of laurel oil, of oil of fox, of camomile and of eyebright, 1 ½ ounces of bear fat and enough clean wax to make an unguent. Incorporate everything together on a little fire, stirring continuously so it does not burn. Then rub the painful nerves.

Tested oil for nerve spasms in several forms.

Take 2 lb. or more of clean wax and distill it in the usual way with a glass retort. Oil will come out for use in the way described below. Put into this oil 1 ounce of mastic, 3 drams of saffron and 2 drams of camphor, all made into fine powder. When you have incorporated them, again distill it in the retort or other glass vessel. A very odorous oil will come out which you should save in a glass bottle, well closed at the top, because the gases might escape and its power would be lost. This oil has many very great virtues, especially against nerve spasm. It is powerful for every bruise, blow or kick that has clotted blood. It should be very warm when you use it and rub with it 2 times a day and keep the sore places warm with unwashed wool which is very appropriate in such a problem. While you are rubbing you will feel the pain alleviate and this comes from the soothing odor. Many experienced men have approved of it.

Another oil for spasms of nerves or from blows. Take 1 ½ ounces each of rose oil and oil of dill, 3 ounces of Venetian turpentine, ½ bowl of earthworms washed in white wine and 1 ½ ounces each of thick pine tar and eyebright. Boil this in a little pot on a slow fire, but not too much. Then strain it carefully, pressing well so the substance comes out and it will be made. Save it for your needs and when you want to use it, put it on very warm with unwashed wool and you will be cured rapidly.

More to comfort the nerves. Take 2 ounces each of juice of rue, oil of dill and chicken fat, 1 ounce of oil of tartar and ½ ounce of powdered mastic. Cut the fat minutely and put everything together in a carafe in the sun, well covered, for 15 to 20 days and then it will be made. Make an ointment of this. It should be warm when you use it. By continuing this, you will be cured quickly.

