Another unguent for nerves retracted and drawn up by infirmity. Take 1 ½ lb. of earthworms washed with white wine, 1 ½ lb. of fat from the horse and 1 lb. each of bear fat, marmot fat, badger fat, oil of balsam and sweet almond oil, 5 lb. of old butter, 4 lb. of old olive oil and 1 handful each of wormwood and sage. First cut all the fats and melt them and then add in the oil and the herbs, cut minutely, with the butter and the earthworms. Boil everything for a piece. Then strain it finely under the press and extract all the substance and put it again in the pot and put therein 3 ounces of clean wax and as it melts, remove it from the fire and it will be made. Continue stirring until it is cold and it will be done. Save it for your needs for drawn and retracted nerves. It should be warm when you rub with it and put on warm unwashed wool and continue in this way and soon you will cure.

Best ointment for retracted nerves.

Take a goose, and it should be fat, pluck it and clean it as if you wanted to eat it and cut off the neck and the feet. Then take a live cat that should be fat, kill it, skin it and clean it as if you wanted to eat it and cut off the head and the feet. Then cut it up minutely including the bones. I say, very minutely. Grind this together with one pound of lard from a male pig, 1 ounce of powdered cloves and 2 ounces of finely-ground clean wax. Grind and incorporate everything well together. Then put everything inside the body of the goose and cook it. Tie it up on the spit and bind it so it stays firm. Then roast it and keep the fire very low until it is cooked or over-cooked, but not burned, until the bone is seen. Collect all the fat so that nothing is lost, not a drop, into a bowl of strong white vinegar. Because you will want the fat that is above the vinegar, save this as something dear. It is the fat which has this property, when retracted nerves are rubbed with it warm, using it several times softens them and makes them return toward their pristine state. Keep them warm with unwashed wool, which is very appropriate. Observe the rules and soon you will be cured.

