Take 1 lb. of Venetian turpentine, 1 ounce each of sarcocol gum, myrrh, flour of lupin, of flax seed and of fenugreek and ½ ounce of clean wax. Dissolve the turpentine and the wax on a good fire. Then remove the pot from the fire and put therein all the other things made into powder and stir with the ladle so it is well mixed until it is cold and it will be made, an unguent good to cleanse those sores that are on the nerves.

Another to cure cut nerves. Take 2 ounces each of these five kinds of oil, that is laurel oil, petroleum, oil of mastic, of dill and of tartar, and badger fat and 1 ounce of clean wax. Incorporate everything on a little fire and make a soft unguent. It should be warm when you want to use it. Do this several times with warm unwashed wool on the cut place and it will help you greatly.

Another for nerves retracted through cold. Take ox dung in the month of May and boil it in good white wine. Bathe the painful nerves with this wine and it should be warm. Do this several times and you will help greatly. Keep the nerve very warm and soon you will cure.

More to cure these sores on nerves and other diverse sores. Say over the sore, first making the sign of the cross, “O highest wisdom and power, O eternal light, O creator of heaven and earth, O you who saved human nature and were placed on the cross + for us, wretched sinners, to save us. Remember, Lord, when you said, ' Hely, hely, lama zabatani. Hoc est corpus meum, Agios, Agios, Agios, Ischiros, Athanatos, Adonay. ' As you, Lord, were freed from the wounds of your side on the most holy cross + which you bore to Mount Calvary, as you, Lord, were wrapped in white cloth, as the wounds did not bleed with either fever or decay, so these will not, if it please God and his Son. Suffering of Christ, may these be healed. Suffering of Christ, may they be healed in the name of the Father, Son and Holy Spirit, Amen.” Say this over the wounds when you pray. Then take a little cloth of a man's shirt and put it in the form of a cross on the wounds and they will be healed quickly.

Unguent from the Master Apothecary, Bonino, the Florentine. He treated with this unguent once a day and cured every serious sore quickly and well.

Take a carafe of vernaza or other very good white wine and put therein a handful of ground betony and let it infuse for 3 whole days. Then boil it in front of the fire until it reduces in half. Strain it and press the herb under the press until you extract all the substance and put them together. Then put in all these gums which should be clean and well washed, that is, 6 ounces of thick pine tar, 4 ounces of galbanum, 3 ounces of juniper gum and 2 ounces each of gum ammoniac and Armenian red clay, 1 ounce each of ivy gum and hepatic aloe and ½ ounce of dragon's blood gum. All these should be melted and strained carefully and incorporated with the above decoction. Return it to a slow fire until you incorporate them and they become like honey. Then remove it from the fire and stir until it is cold and it will be made, an noteworthy unguent which will cure any wound rapidly. It has been tested.

Another unguent for the above from the Master Apothecary Bonino. Take 6 ounces each of ordinary oil and thick pine tar and 3 ounces each of rose oil and clean wax. Put everything in a pot to melt on a slow fire. Then strain it and add 2 ounces of powdered turpentine and boil it for the time it takes to say an Ave Maria. When it is cold, wash it with water and let it stay to soften for the night. In the morning, drain it well of the water. Then incorporate 3 ounces of betony juice and stir until it is well mixed and it will be made. Use it at your pleasure for all wounds. It will bring you honor, and quickly.

Unguent that resolves the swelling and scab after the wound is healed.

Take 2 ounces each of dregs of oil of lily and of linseed, bdellium, clean wax, liquid storax, galbanum, opoponax gum, chicken fat or goose fat and pig lard, each at your discretion. Take the bdellium, galbanum and opoponax and grind them in a mortar and take the storax and the wax and grind them together and add the gums. Then put in the strained fats and the oils and incorporate very well with the pestle and do not spare the labor and you will make a wonderful unguent to remove the swelling and hardness that remains after the wound is healed. But first you need to wash the healed wound with wine that has been boiled with marsh mallow, mallow and flax seeds and when it is washed this should be very warm. Dry it and use this unguent and you will see a good cure. It is tested.

Another alterative to remove the scab of a healed wound. Take 6 ounces of good pine tar, 2 ounces each of clean wax, linseed flour and fenugreek flour, 1 lb. of camomile oil, 1 ounce each of goose fat, chicken fat and goat fat and 6 drams each of mastic and incense. Put the tar and the wax to melt on the fire and strain it through muslin. Return it to the fire and put in the powdered mastic and incense. Then put in the fat, strained and clean, and let it boil a little. Then put in the flours and remove it from the fire and stir with your spatula until it is cold and it will be made. Use it at your pleasure as described above.

Another to remove the signs of wounds and other marks rapidly. Take oil of tartar and human semen, the same amount of each, and incorporate them together and heat this in an eggshell and rub the red signs 2 or 3 times a day and soon the signs will disappear. This is very well tested and truly proved.

To remove the red marks and scars from wounds in several ways.

Take 30 fresh eggs layed on the same day and cook them in water so they become very hard and take the yolks and put them all in a little frying pan or other little pan and do not put in anything else and make them fry slowly on a low fire. Then mince them and put them in a bag of strong cloth and put them under the press and tighten so that the liquor comes out and save this as something dear. If by chance little or nothing comes out, put the press tightly closed as it is in a humid place and soon the oil will come forth. Collect it and when you have it, preserve it. Use this warm to rub on the red marks and the edge around the wounds so when they are cured they soon fade so that little by little they will disappear.

Another to remove the red marks from wounds or other scars on the body. Take fresh and clean shin bones from animals. Put them to soften in white vinegar as strong as you can find for 10 to 12 days, keeping them covered and in a warm place. Then break or cut them as minutely as you can and distill them in a glass still with a very low fire. Save the water that comes out as something valuable. First heat this distillation and bathe the red marks from wounds or scars and by continuing this for several times they will be faded so they will hardly be seen. If the illness is fresh, soon it will disappear so it is seen no more. This has been tested.

Another ointment for the above, to make the signs of wounds, cuts or scrapes go away. Take some bulbs of white lilies and cook them in water. Then grind them in a mortar and take 1 ounce of pork lard and add 3 drams each of powdered mastic and incense, 1 dram of camphor, ½ ounce of powdered white lead and some rose oil and make the unguent on a slow fire. Repeatedly rub this unguent on the red edges caused by wounds, scrapes or other scabs and continue it and soon they will go away. It is tested.

