Another water that removes the red marks and edges and even warts and rashes quickly. Take 1 ½ lb. each of oak ashes or other strong ashes and pulverized litharge, 6 ounces of powdered quicklime, 3 ounces of copper sulfate, 1 dram of ammonium chloride and 8 lb. of strong lye that can float an egg and is the kind used for soap. Put everything together in a covered pot and boil on a slow fire until one third remains and stir several times and it will be done. Put it in a vitreous vessel and keep it well covered so that it does not get too much air because it may lose much of the substance and effectiveness. Then with this composition, rub where you have red signs or other marks or warts or rashes. By doing this several times, they will go away. If it causes burning or irritation, take as much as you can of such irritation and when you cannot bear it, just put on a drop of rose water or plantain water or other water and at once the burning will stop as if you never felt it. You will be cured quickly because it has been tested.

Another to take away the marks on the flesh and also other scars from scratches. Take some urine from a healthy man and distill it in a glass still on a slow fire. First water will come out and later, by increasing the fire a little, oil will come out. Collect each one separately. You should know that continued use of the oil is what removes large spots and grows new flesh and makes them flesh color. The water that comes out first makes beautiful flesh.

Unguents of several kinds to draw out iron, wood or spines from the flesh.

Take 6 drams each of yeast from frumenty and honey and 1 dram each of mistletoe from oak and ammonium chloride and dissolve everything in water and add 2 drams of fenugreek flour and enough old oil and incorporate everything together on a little fire and make the unguent. With this, warm, rub the sore place in the morning and evening and it will draw out the material that is inside or will put it forth with pus at the same time and you will cure quickly.

Another for the above illness. Take some leaves of heliotrope and grind them between 2 stones and put them on the afflicted places and it will help you remove the discomfort rapidly.

Another for the above illness from iron, wood or spines thrust in the flesh. Take roots of marsh mallow, washed and very clean, cut them finely and boil them in ordinary oil in a pot until they become dark. Then strain them and press them through cloth and put therein 2 ounces of clean wax and 3 ounces of turpentine and incorporate everything together close by the fire and stir until it is cold and it will be made. Treat with this, warm, and soon you will cure.

Another for the above illness. Take the roots of giant reed and powder of mountain mint and incorporate them well, grinding everything together with a little honey and yeast from frumenty and some galbanum. Then put this on the sore place several times, warm, and soon it will draw out the splinter and you will cure.

Another to make flesh grow rapidly in the wounds . Take powder of Florentine iris and incorporate it with the white of an egg. Then dry it and make very fine powder and put it on the wound. If iron is in the wound, put on agrimony mixed warm with ground lard and soon it will draw out the splinter. Do this several times. It has been tested.

Another to withdraw iron that may be fixed in the flesh. First say, with reverence, a Pater Noster and an Ave Maria. See if it possible for you to touch the iron with 2 fingers where it is in the flesh or with the tip of the finger, and as you feel it, say with reverence, 'Longino was a Hebrew, son of a Pharisee, who wounded Jesus Christ and wounded him in the right side. We beseech Jesus Christ just as the iron wounded him, so may this iron that I touch come forth from here.' Say this 3 times in a row, touching it with your fingers, and say a Pater Noster and soon the iron will come out and you will cure it, with God's grace.

