Another, a water to treat and cure the above wounds. Take clear and clean water and bless it three times in a row. Say the Pater Noster first each time and say it without deadly sin and without a weapon on you and when you treat the patient he should have forgiven the offense and have said the Pater Noster and the Ave Maria. Wet some cloths in this water and put it on the wound in the form of a cross and treat it twice a day until it is cured. This is the prayer that is said over the water, viz., 'In the name of the Father and Son and Holy Spirit, Amen. In the name of God and the Holy Trinity and by that holy night when the glorious Virgin Mary gave birth to the blessed Jesus Christ. Christ was born, died and was resurrected and ordered that all these wounds should be well healed and well cured without cold, without heat, without blood, without pus, without cut nerves, without rotted bones, without fever, without death and without any other illness. So the glorious Virgin Mary ordered for this pure water and for every water which makes every liquor and precious unguent which may have been used as did Jesus Christ and his sweet mother, the Virgin Mary. By these and those words that you have said over the wood of the holy cross, so the true power will come from Jesus Christ in this blessed water that should cure your servant (name), in the name of the Father + , Son and Holy Spirit, Amen + + +.' Do not change the orders said above and save this water that is always good to cure any wound or cut, through the power of Jesus Christ. It is tested.

*Another to draw out a thorn from the flesh. Take fresh roots of giant reed and lard and grind them together and put this warm on the puncture and the thorn will come forth onto the plaster. Do this several times. It has been tested.

Pine tar unguent.

Take 6 ounces each of rose oil, clean wax and thick pine tar, 4 ounces of turpentine, 1 ounce each of incense, mastic and galbanum and 2 ounces of honey. Put the galbanum, mastic and incense to soak in strong vinegar for one night. Then put these in a pot without the vinegar and put them dry on the embers until they are melted. Put in the tar to melt, then the oil, the turpentine and the honey and incorporate them very well with your spatula. Put in the wax, cut finely, and let it boil a very little. Remove it from the fire and strain it warm through bunting cloth and stir until it is cold and it will be made. It will serve your needs and bring you honor.

Yellow unguent.

