Take 3 ounces each of rose water and nightshade water, 2 ounces each of oil of roses and oil of myrtle, 1 ounce each of Armenian red clay and dragon's blood gum and 1 ½ ounces of white wax. Compound all of the above things on a slow fire, stirring continuously until it is cold, and it will be made. Use it and it will bring you honor. It has been tested.

Caustic for afflicted flesh.

Take fresh honey, skimmed, and put therein 1 ounce each of rock alum and verdigris, both pulverized, ½ ounce each of turpentine and rose oil and a little strong vinegar. Mix everything together on a little fire and it will be made. Use it as needed.

Another escharotic. Take 2 ounces each of male pig lard and turpentine and ½ ounce of mercury and compound them in the usual way described above and add ½ ounce of clean wax. Then have prepared ash of grape vine and add as much ash as can be taken up by the unguent. Compound all these well and it will be made, pleasant and beneficial.

To make troches of red lead in order to open sores.

Take 4 ounces of white flour bread dough, uncooked and well risen, 1 ounce of red lead and ½ ounce of mercuric chloride, well ground, and compound everything with rose water. Then make your troches with care and dry them in a warm oven, but do not let them burn. You can form as many troches of different kinds as needed.

A quick and very fine escharotic.

Take ½ ounce each of saccharine alum, rock alum, litharge, white lead and mercury, 1 ounce of mercuric chloride and grind everything finely and rub them through a fine sieve. Then compound them with butter the size of a nut, and lastly put in the mercury and stir this with a stick until it is well incorporated with the other things. When you put it on the afflicted flesh, it breaks it open and it is good when this happens though cautery.

*Another escharotic. Take 6 ounces of the master ingredient described below, 1 ½ drams of copper sulfate and 1 scruple of opium. Boil this until thickened and when it is done, remove it and put in the opium and incorporate that and it will be made for cauterizing abcesses and removing excess flesh. It works in ½ hour, more or less.

Cautery for cold burning quickly.

Take lye strong enough to float an egg, made from oak ashes and lime, that is the master ingredient from which soap is made. Fill a pot and put therein 6 ounces of powdered quicklime, 2 scruples of fine orpiment and 1 lb. of fresh honey and boil it very slowly in a vitreous pot, well covered and wrapped so that no air comes out or all will be destroyed and turn to liquid and have no strength. Boil it with a low fire until it becomes hard when it is cold. Save it and when you wish to treat, that is to open the flesh by cautery, put a little of the above material or powder in a ring suitable for the place where you want to make the opening in the flesh and put in the ring something round that presses on the flesh. Bind it on in the evening and in the morning you will find an opening as large as the ring and you have your cautery there which you can wash without any distress. Put on a single chick pea or little ball of wax and on this a leaf of hellebore that draws out much material. Clean this 2 times a day. In this way you will make an opening without giving distress to the patient and you will have good success.

Another to make a simple escharotic. Take 2 bowls of oak ashes and one bowl of quicklime and boil them in a pot for a bit. Then extract out the clear water, as much as you can, and boil that in another little pot and boil it very slowly so that it thickens. Let it cool down by itself and when it is cold it will be firm and hard. If you are able to reduce it to powder that is better. Preserve it in a vitreous vessel, well covered so it does not see air because it will become very liquid. This powder is called 'cold fire.' If you put it on the flesh it ulcerates where it touches. Do the cautery in the way described above.

Also, if you take the leaf of clematis and put it where you want to cauterize and put on one bean and bind it on tightly with a bandage, the flesh will be broken and you will make the little opening easily. All these are tested.

Powder to regrow tissue in sores.

Take 1 ounce each of incense, Florentine iris, mastic, fenugreek flour, aloe and juniper tears and make very fine powder of everything and incorporate them together and take powdered roots of marsh mallow, washed and clean, and mix everything. Pass it through a hair sieve and it will be made. Use this powder to put on sores. It generates good flesh and cleans the sores without any stinging and cleans the dirt and quickly heals the sores.

