Also this other powder regrows flesh on sores. Take ½ ounce each of clear frankincense, hepatic aloe, dragon's blood gum, sarcocol gum and myrrh and make very fine powder of them all. Pass this through a hair sieve and put it on the sores and soon good flesh will grow and you will cure the sore.

Powder to consolidate old sores and unite new.

Take ½ ounce of dry cypress nuts, 1 ½ drams each of mastic, sarcocol gum and Armenian red clay, 3 drams each of dragon's blood gum and Florentine iris and 2 drams of litharge. Make very fine powder of all and pass them through a hair sieve and use it for your needs. First clean the sore and put thereon some powder and you will cure it.

Another powder to consolidate all sores. Take 3 ounces of powdered bugloss and 1 ½ ounces each of dragon's blood gum, tragacanth and gum arabic. Make fine powder of all of the above things and pass them through a hair sieve and incorporate them well. Then put it on old or new sores and soon they will be healed. It has been tested.

Rose unguent to cool sore legs.

Take 6 ounces of oil of roses, 1 ½ ounces of white lead, ½ ounce of white wax and make an unguent in the usual way. When it is cooked, wash it 4 times with rose water. Then add 4 ounces of yellow litharge and incorporate in the usual way and you will have a well-formed unguent. Treat every illness of the legs with this. You should know that in this illness you need to be careful of your eating. Do not eat harmful things and it will be cured.

Another unguent for the above illness of the legs when they may be difficult to heal. Take male pork lard and grind it finely and melt it and take the same amount of turpentine and incorporate these together on a slow fire and it will be made. Rub the legs and the sore with this ointment as required and you will cure them rapidly.

Make this powder for the above illness of the legs. Take hepatic aloe and betony and make very fine powder. Put this on the sores and soon it will cure them. It has been tested.

