Another for cleansing. Take 6 ounces of turpentine, 1 ounce of rose honey, 1 dram each of sarcocol gum, myrrh and fenugreek flour and enough rye flour. Make the unguent in the usual way and save this for your needs. When you use it, you will see its effect.

To extend a nerve that has been retracted by illness.

Take equal amounts of marsh mallow root, dried violets and flax seeds and boil everything with mild lye until it reduces 1/3. With this warm liquid bathe the painful place with a sponge several times and soon you will see improvement.

More to make retracted nerves return. Take some marsh mallow flowers and put them in a glass ampule and fill it with ordinary oil, the oldest that you can find. Cork it well and put it in the sun for one month. Rub the painful place with this warm oil and you will cure it.

Another unguent for retracted nerves. Take 2 ounces each of laurel oil, mineral oil, mastic oil, dill oil, oil of tartaric acid and badger fat. Incorporate everything together on a little fire with sufficient clean wax and make the unguent. Make it very warm and rub the painful place and soon you will cure it. It has been tested.

Poultice to mature an abcess quickly.

Take marsh mallow roots, white lily bulbs, butter, lard from a male pig, mallow, fenugreek flour, flour of flax seeds and saffron, the amounts of each at your discretion. Make a good poultice and put it on the sore very warm. Do this several times and you will cure it rapidly. This has been tested.

Golden poultice, powerful for wounds.

Take equal amounts of Greek pitch or colophony, which is the same thing, sulfur and white incense, all of which are well ground, and incorporate them with egg white. Rub a piece of parchment well with this mixture and press it on the wound tightly with the finger, cleaning out the blood well. Put on the little piece of parchment and bind it on with a bandage and the wound will heal most rapidly. This secret is from one who never wanted to teach it to anyone. By chance he was wounded and was constrained to teach it to one of his friends to treat his own wound, so he revealed it and soon he was cured.

Poultice for a wound that may be infected with worms.

