Take 1 ounce each of bdellium and juniper gum, ½ ounce of musk and 2 ounces of turpentine. Dissolve the bedllium and the juniper gum in strong vinegar and strain this. Put in the turpentine and the musk. Then put in 2 ounces of oil of white lily. Cook this on a slow fire for a reasonable period, stirring continuously, and remove it from the fire. Thicken it with flour of lupins and of fenugreek and it will be made. Use it as you please and it will bring you honor.

To cut a limb without pain to the patient.

Take 3 ounces each of mercuric sublimate, arsenic, realgar and cinnabar and 4 ounces each of turpentine and naval pitch. Pulverize everything finely and distill them with a glass tube and extract water and save this. Then make a knife of dry olive wood, cut as thin as is possible. When you want to cut a limb, first wet the knife in this distilled water and the more often you wet the knife with the water, the better you will cut without great pain to the patient. This secret was used by Master Christopher from Norsia, renowned in such acts of surgery, and he was said to have made excellent cures.

Water that removes the signs from the edges of wounds.

Take some water that stands in the little blisters that form on elm trees, that is the liquor inside. Otherwise, take a quantity of these blisters and put them in a flask with a long neck and close it well. Put it in a place that stays warm for 15 days. Remove it and put it in the sun for 15 days. That totals one month, day and night. Then distill it in a glass still on a slow fire. Save the water that comes out very carefully. When you wish to treat, dip the tip of the finger in it and rub well around the edges or the sign as much as you can. Do it this way 2 or 3 times a day. Soon the mark will no more be seen because this water tones down the red sign and makes it white as the flesh so it is not distinguishable. This has been tested. This water removes scabs much better when mixed with water that drips from grape vines.

*Another for the above. Take roots of Florentine iris and boil them to reduce in half. Then strain and press well and wash with this and soon the mark of a wound will disappear. By Master Apothecary Pellegrino.

Knee or hand that is swollen from humors that run down.

Take the center of a loaf of white bread and put it in a little pot and put therein mild lye and 1 ½ ounces of oil of roses and a little pork lard well ground and a little whole saffron. When it is well cooked, break up the bread with a ladle and add a very little fine wheat flour so this will hold together better. Then spread this very warm on one or 2 leaves of cabbage and put it on the swollen knee or hand. Doing this very warm very soon lifts the pain and removes the matter and the swelling is much reduced. It will not cause more distress and the area will be rewarmed.

To resolve one that does not come to a head. Take mallow and sweet violets and cook them in water and crush them on a cutting board with a little lard and put this very warm on the swollen knee or hand or other sore place. It will lift the pain. Do it several times in the morning and evening and you will soon cure it.

If you take a stupe of carded cotton and wet it in urine and put it on the warm coals and put this warm on the swelling, wherever it is, it will soon lift the pain. It brings the matter to a head without distress and it makes a head that you can cut open. Medicate with egg yolk and turpentine for 2 or 3 days, morning and evening, and rub around with rose oil and soon you will cure it.

To remove the redness of a knee or leg that is swollen.

Take a piece of skin the size of a palm from each side of a dog. Take 1 lb. of pine resin, 3 ounces of galbanum, 5 drams of mastic and 5 grains each of musk, amber and civet musk. Melt the resin and the galbanum and as they melt add the powdered mastic. Watch that it does not burn and mix them well. Then spread this warm on the dog's skin to the thickness of ½ a finger. Then have prepared 15 or 20 sow bugs that curl up like little balls and grind everything together in the mortar with a little pork lard to form a soft unguent. Rub this well on the plaster and put it very warm on the knee or on the flesh of the leg and bandage so it stays on and if there is hair, it should be cut. Leave the bandage on for 2 or 3 days and then remove it. If it has made blisters, break them and press out that water. Wash the leg with wine in which has been boiled olive leaves, agrimony, rose and plantain and dry it. In the evening replace the warm plaster. Continue this one or 2 times every week. All the moisture will be resolved into water and the redness and swelling will be removed. If there is a sore, treat it as usual and soon you will cure it. This is tested. Take care of yourself.

