Unguent or poultice from the masters Ganfredi which is said to be powerful, by the grace of God, truly to cure all new and old wounds and to grow good flesh. It does not allow any corruption to enter nor permit any bad flesh to develop and it is powerful for all cut or shattered nerves and it is powerful against all venomous beasts and draws out the venom, and for scrofula and Saint Anthony's fire and many other ills that you will discover through more experience. Take 1 ounce each of galbanum, opopanax gum, olibanum, bdellium, verdigris, mastic, myrrh, frankincense, long birthwort and colophony, that is Greek pitch, 1 ounce of gum ammoniac, 1 dram each of lodestone and tragacanth, 2 drams of hematite, 6 ounces of clean wax and 1 lb. each of olive oil and fine litharge. Make all into fine powder except the wax, galbanum, gum ammoniac and opopanax gum. First put the three gums to soften in strong vinegar for one whole day. Melt them in a pot with the vinegar on a slow fire, stirring continually so they do not stick and boil until the vinegar is consumed. Then mix with a little odoriferous wine and strain it and set it aside. Put the oil on the fire and make the wax melt in it. Put in the above powders and the litharge and stir continuously because it readily sticks to the bottom. Then the gums, little by little, then the verdigris, the myrrh, the birthwort, the mastic, the incense and the other things are put in little by little, always stirring so that it does not attach to the pot and with a little fire. Continue this until you see it change to a dark color. If you want to know when it is cooked, let a drop fall in cold water and if it becomes hard, it is cooked and if not, leave it a while on the fire and do not stop using the stirring rod. When it is cooked, remove the pot from the fire and put it in cold water until it is cooled in the water to a form that you can handle. Rub it with ordinary oil and when it is done, preserve it as a paste in a bottle. It will last 100 years and is always good. This has been tested.

