Take 1 ½ ounces of sarcocol gum, 1 ounce of Florentine iris, 1 ounce of punice stone, ½ ounce of benzoin gum, 2 drams of Syrian storax, 1 dram of ash from a willow tree and ½ scruple of fine civet musk. Pulverize everything to impalpability. First put the sarcocol gum in a box of brass with a little water of dried roses on a slow fire and as it softens, as it will quickly, divide this gum into 4 parts, little by little. First knead one part with storax and benzoin gum together into a wheel of dough, making 3 parts as large as a knife handle. Then with another part make 3 parts with powdered pumice. Then make another part into 3 parts with orris root and make the fourth part into 2 little ones with powdered carbon. Take one of these pieces and rub it with a little civet musk, carefully in the dough. Put it on one or the other color, turning them as if making a rosary of mixed colors of dough. Then put them on a piece of cloth and bind it so that it takes on the shape of a mushroom and put it in a little box with cotton wool. Carry it in the chest or similar warm place and it will be made.

Unguent for ulcer in several forms.

Take 1 ounce each of galbanum, white diaquilon , Spanish pitch, clean wax, white tar and old lard, 2 ounces of ordinary oil, 3 ounces of white incense, ½ ounce of powdered cloves and 3 ½ ounces of well-ground powder of fresh water crayfish. Make all of the above things into an unguent in the usual way. This will bring you honor in all your treatments.

Another, a marvelous powder to cure an ulcer. Take the head and feet of a crane and dry them in the oven and make it into powder. Take flax seed, dregs of ink, pomegranate rind, betony and shepherd's purse and make powder of all. Roast the seed, the dregs and the pomegranate rind very well and incorporate them. Mix half of the above powder in fresh oil and save the other half, well covered. But first put some powdered litharge and verdigris on the ulcer, according to whether the ulcer is old or new or if it has eaten away some flesh. If it is new, put a little powder on it and if it is old, put on more. Both before and after wash the sore inside and out with very good warm wine. Dry it well with fine linen cloth. Then put therein some of this powder made with oil and fill the sore well. Treat one day yes, the other no, and with the aid of God, you will soon cure it. This has been tested.

Another to cure an ulcer so it grows new flesh. Take the head of a rabbit with the skin and everything and dry it in the oven and make very fine powder. Take the feces of a healthy man from 20 to 30 years in age and dry it in the oven and make very fine powder. Incorporate both together and put it on the ulcer and have prepared some juice made of rosemary and put it on the sore, that is on the powder. When you want to treat, first wash the sore with warm white wine in which was first boiled ivy, cypress nuts and tamarind, in equal proportions. Then put on the powder and then the juice and bandage it carefully. Do this twice a day and soon you will be cured, with the aid of God. Be careful what you eat. This has been tested.

First say over it these 4 words, viz. 'In the beginning and the end there is God. There was the ulcer. God lives and the ulcer dies. In the name of the Father +, Son + and Holy Spirit +, Amen.' Say this 3 times with 3 Pater Noster. It will bring you honor.

To remove an ulcer and cure it quickly.

Take a large live toad, a live turtle, a mole that stays underground and some human feces. Put all these things in a pot with a cover. Then lute it well around with lute of wisdom or with dough and when it has dried, put it in the oven after the bread is removed. See that the pot does not leak anywhere. From the amount that you put in, you can judge when to bring out the pot so you can make very fine powder of everything that you have put in the pot. Then take filings of steel, the finest that you can get, or 12 to 15 drops of extract from thin steel. Grind them and make very fine powder and in addition as much ground glass and a little ground pepper and make very fine powder of each by itself. Then take an amount at your discretion and mix them together and incorporate the powder with some fresh honey until a firm dough is made. Then let it dry and make a very fine powder and save this for your needs. Put some of the powder on the ulcer or rub it in the abcess and it will be removed quickly when the illness is new and not too deeply rooted in the bone. Then it will be difficult to cure, being so deeply rooted. Keep to this rule that has been tested by very worthy men.

*Tested unguent to cure a carbuncle. Take 2 drams of large dry figs, ½ dram of true senna, 1 dram of gum ammoniac, 3 drams of turpentine and equal proportions of flour of fenugreek and of flax seed. Distemper this with rose honey and make an unguent.

To remove a fistula in several ways.

Take tartaric acid from a cask, heat it and make fine powder, and an equal amount of long-leaved plantain, that is ribwort, and make fine powder and incorporate them together. Then put some of the powder on a tent and put it on the opening of the fistula. Otherwise make a tent of ribwort leaves and put on some of this powder and treat with this. Alternatively put one powder on and then the other to see which works better. But take care how you live, because these fistulas may come in several kinds. That is, some are warm and some cold and you should know that the cold fistula of gout makes its opening little and minute. To cure them, take ribwort juice and an equal amount of egg white and the best quality rye flour and incorporate everything together in the form of a poultice. Put it on the sore place and let it stay until it comes off by itself. When it comes off, do it again and soon you will be cured. Continue this until you are cured.

If you wish to remove the bad tissue of the fistula, take copper sulfate made into very fine powder and distemper it with butter in the form of an unguent and put it on the fistula. It is said that in 24 hours it will be cleaned up and you will soon be cured. Keep yourself from adverse things.

When you treat the fistula, say this prayer over it with the sign of the cross, viz. '+ Christ conquers, + Christ rules, + Christ orders, + Christ protect you from all evil. God, in his name, may make you well and through his power free you. From the side of our Lord, Jesus Christ, blood and water came out. I implore you, blood and wound from the side and the lance which pierced the side of our Lord, Jesus Christ, may blood not come out. + Agios + otheos + ischiros + athanatos + eleyson + ymas + sanctus + dominus + sanctus fortis + et sanctus immortalis + thetragramaton + ha filii david miserere. + Clean and heal the tissue. Jesus Christ may do it well. In the name of the Father, Son and Holy Spirit, Amen + + +.'

*Prayer against ulcer and fistula. Viz. 'In the name of the holy indivisible Trinity, Father, Son and Holy Spirit, Amen. He conquers and destroys the root. Atta, Atta. I implore you ulcer or fistula, by the omnipotent Father, by the holy Virgin Mary, by Saint John the Baptist and all the saints of God which are in heaven who in the name of Christ stand in the book of life, by the twenty-four elders, by the twenty-four martyrs who in the name of Christ have suffered, by the cherubim and serafim who daily before God incessantly proclaim, saying holy, holy Lord God, Sabaot, king and Lord God, Father of our Lord, Jesus Christ. This is as true as the heavens are firm. All power is God's. Dry up ulcer or fistula or mark which is in this servant of God. Lord, holy Father, omnipotent eternal God who made heaven and earth and placed them in the orbit of heaven. The Lord is King of kings. I beg that this ulcer or fistula or mark dry up. Merciful Lord, heal your servant as you healed Christ, the Son of God, who suffered through you. Holy angels and archangels of God, patriarachs and prophets, apostles, martyrs, confessors, virgins and all the saints of God, remove all tribulation and pain of ulcers, fistulas and marks, through Christ, our Lord, Amen. I implore you, ulcer or fistula, by the Father, Son and Holy Spirit, Amen, by the dread day of judgment, by the four evengelists, by the twelve apostles, by the twelve prophets, by the twenty-four elders who daily praise and adore the Lord, by the ruler of the world, our Lord, Jesus Christ, Son of God who was crucified on the holy cross for our sins. I implore you by the blessed Christopher to whom God gave the power to heal ulcer or fistula, and I implore you by the blessed Blasium, by the blessed Claudius who has the power to cure this infirmity. By those I implore you that the ulcer or fistula does not have power over him or her. Amen. Father, Son and Holy Spirit, Amen.' Say this prayer. 'Let us pray. Omnipotent, everlasting Lord, eternal health is belief in you. Hear me for your servant for your mercy. Father of our Lord, Jesus Christ, the Son who lives with you, we implore you to return him to health soon.' Then say the Pater Noster. 'Free your servant from ulcer or fistula and all illness. Be well. Be well. Be well. So be it. So be it. So be it. Amen. So be it through the grace of God.' Say this 3 times and it will be cured quickly.

