Another for healing an ulcer or scrofula. “ In the name of the Father, Son and Holy Spirit, Amen. God of Abraham, + God of Isaac, + God of Jacob, + have pity on your servant (name). So be it. So be it. So be it. Amen. Amen. Amen. + Christ conquers, + Christ rules, + Christ orders. + Amen. In the name of the Father, Son and Holy Spirit, Amen. Our Father who is in heaven. + In the name of the Father, Son and Holy Spirit, Amen. Holy, Holy, Holy. Lord God, heaven and earth are full of your glory. Hosannah in the highest. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Hosannah in the highest +. In the name of the Father, Son and Holy Spirit, Amen. I implore you, ulcer or scrofula, by the Father, Son and Holy Spirit, by the Virgin Mary and by these, by all the holy angels and archangels, by cherubim and seraphim, by the beginning and the power, by the throne and authority, by the patriarchs and prophets and the twelve apostles, by the four evangelists, Matthew, Mark, Luke and John, by the twenty-four elders who are before God, by all the saints of God, by the seven sleepers, by the sun and moon, by the heaven and by all who are in heaven, by the paradise of God and all who are there, and by immortal God, by the holy resurrection and holy ascension and by the number given up at birth to the altar of God, by the seventy angels who are before God where there is no better nor higher place, by Saint John the Baptist, by Saint Luke the Evangelist, dry up you cursed creature and wither and lessen as I touch you. Dry up you cursed creature. Lord Jesus Christ, you who told your disciples, 'In my name they will throw out demons, they will speak with a new tongue, they will remove serpents and if they drink something deadly, it will not harm them.' He will place his hand on the illnesses and they will go away completely. I put my hand on that ulcer or scrofula in your name, not with merit for I am not worthy, but for the honor of your name. Lord, as you freed Daniel from the lions' den, the three boys from the burning fire, Sidrach, Misach and Abednego, and Susanna from false charges and opened the eyes of the blind and revived Lazarus four days after death, I entreat you sovreign, most clement Father, so may you think this, your servant (name), worthy to be set free from ulcer or scrofula which he has. Again, I implore you by the 72 names of Christ, by the 318 fathers who determined the laws of the world, to remove this illness, just as you destroyed the one who sinned with his mother and two sisters. Eternal Father, eternal Son, eternal Holy Spirit, God in your name cure your servant (name) of all ills and, in your power, free him. Father, Son and Holy Spirit, Amen.” Say this most holy prayer for 3 mornings over the sick place of ulcer or scrofula and carry the written prayer with you. Do not eat things that are not good and avoid all things adverse, especially fruit and pork, and with the aid of God you will soon be cured, because this has been tested many times.

To cure quickly the abcess that comes in the finger.

Take 3 tips of elder and each tip should have 3 leaves. First say 3 Pater Noster and 3 Ave Maria and say the prayer written below once for each tip. Then put them on the sore place in the form of a cross. Be confident that this sore will be cured in good time because it opens up. It may have indurated and made a head and it may have a long root. Use these leaves until the root has come out. If you want to put a little fat or lard together with the leaves when the root begins to come out, soon it will come out without pain. When the root comes out you will be able to medicate with an unguent and soon you will cure it.

This is the prayer, viz. 'God cures you. Twelve are the apostles whom God blessed, four are the evangelists, Matthew, Mark, Luke and John. In the name of God and of the blessed saint and Saint Fabian and of the healing saint, Amen.'

A prayer to cure the abcess. When you have such an illness as an abcess in the tip of the finger, say over the sore the Pater Noster and the Ave Maria. Then say, 'The abcess is destroyed by God and by Saint Mark and Saint Matthew and the 12 apostles and the 4 evangelists and those who stand before Christ and by the blessed Fabian and Sebastian and Cosmas and Damian and the blessed healing saint. Amen. + Father, Son and Holy Spirit +, Amen.'

For a venomous bite or having eaten something venomous or worms or venomous animals and for body pain.

