Another plaster for rupture. Take 1 ½ drams each of black tar and Greek pitch, 3 drams of mummy, 2 drams each of tragacanth, gum arabic, dragon's blood gum, mastic, Armenian red clay, cypress nuts and parchment glue, 1 dram of incense and 1 ounce of clean wax. First melt the wax and then the pitches. Then put in all the other things made into very fine powder and put them in little by little, stirring continuously with the rod until it is cooked according to the usual method. Then remove it from the fire and when it is cold, rub the hands with oil and knead the dough well until you can make it into a medallion. Then smooth it on the chamois to put it on the rupture. Put it on very firmly with a belt of fustian or belt of hemp so it is well closed and firm.

Stay in repose as much as you can if you want to be cured quickly. Take care of yourself, do not eat things adverse as they will make you ill. Every morning use some of the powder written below with wine or warm broth. Viz. Take 1 dram each of cypress nuts, mummy, galingale, Indian leaf and myrtle, 2 drams each of cinnamon and dragon's blood gum and make very fine powder of all. The dose is 1 ½ drams early in the morning and repose yourself for ½ hour and soon, with the aid of God, you will be cured. Take care of yourself.

Another plaster for rupture. Take 3 drams of colofony, 2 drams each of naval pitch and gum ammoniac and 3 drams of parchment glue. Cut up the gums and soften them in 3 drams of strong vinegar with 2 drams of oil of mastic for one whole day. Then dissolve it on a slow fire with 2 ½ drams of clean wax and strain it while warm and put into the strained liquid the powder written below, viz. Take ½ dram each of mastic, tragacanth, incense, fenugreek flour, Armenian red clay, mummy and dragon's blood gum and incorporate them very well with the spatula on a slow fire. Then remove it from the fire and stir until it is cold and the plaster will be made. Then spread it on chamois and put it on the pubic area that should be shaved. Bind it on firmly with more wrappings with a band, well fastened.

Do little that is fatiguing and stay in repose, if you can, so you will be cured more quickly. Preserve yourself from all those things that you know are adverse to you and you will be cured. Take care of yourself.

A very strong plaster for intestinal rupture.

