Take 1 ½ ounces each of Greek pitch and fish glue, 1 ounce each of naval pitch and gum ammoniac, 2 drams each of mastic, tragacanth, incense, fenugreek flour, 1 ½ drams each of Armenian red clay and dragon's blood gum, 1 ½ drams each of cypress nuts, mummy and elemi gum and Indian leaf, 2 ounces each of roots of greater comfrey and myrtle, 3 drams each of cloves and galingale, 2 ½ ounces each of oil of mastic, powder of Turkey oak and of coral, 1 handful each of the herb rusty fern, adder's tongue fern and hepatica, 1 ounce of lodestone and 2 ounces of clean wax. All of the above things should be of high quality. First melt the wax, pitch, fish glue and gum ammoniac and put the tragacanth to soften in 1 ounce of vinegar. Make as fine a powder as you can from all the other things. Cut the herbs as minutely as possible so that they are powdered if you can. Then first put the herbs in the pot together with the wax and the other melted things and put in the tragacanth. Then put in the other powders little by little and continue stirring well, incorporating with your wooden spatula on a slow fire. When it is cooked, remove it from the fire. When it is nearly cold, rub your hands with ordinary oil and knead it between the hands for ½ hour. That helps this mix because it comes to be refined and incorporated and it lasts longer. Then spread it on chamois, as usual, not too thickly. Shave the pubic region when you want to put it on. Then say the Pater Noster and the Ave Maria and touch the place of the rupture that hurts with your finger and make the sign of the cross and say this devotional prayer over it three times in a row and each time say the Pater Noster so that there will be 3 reverences to the Holy Trinity. Say this for three mornings in a row, touching the plaster with the finger. Viz. 'We pray. Blessed be the place and hour that God was born and was baptized in the River Jordan. How much pain this rupture does or will do is at the pleasure of God and the Holy Trinity and the everglorious Virgin Mary. So the sickness can go and disappear and the sick one can be cured and restored to health as before, in the name of the Father, Son and Holy Spirit, Amen.' Then wash the place and put on the prepared plaster and when you put it on, make it stay stretched with the legs straight so that the intestines do not stay in the bag of skin. Then put on it more packing with a belt of hemp or fustian that should be very tight and well tied and firm, both day and night.

If a rapid cure is desired, try to stay quiet, do not be fatigued nor go about wrapped up too much. Do not eat unhealthy things, such as pork meat which is too harmful, nor sour things, nor legumes, but all the things that you eat should be well-cooked. Chew food well so that it does not generate gas in the body and is sooner digested and gives nourishment to the body. Refrain from women for this time, that is for at least a month to a month and a half. By observing the rules above, you will be cured even if you have borne it for a long time because others have been cured with this.

Another plaster to cure rupture. Take 6 drams each of valerian, snails, madder without the tops and mummy, 3 ounces each of juice of butcher's broom, turpentine and clean wax, 2 ounces each of Armenian red clay, mastic, tile, Solomon's seal, 4 ounces of starfish, 1 ½ ounces each of colofony and resin and 2 drams of diamonds. Make a plaster in the usual way. Bind it very tightly on the rupture and renew it 2 or 3 times in a month or more.

Keep yourself from all adverse things, as is described above, and be confident that you will be cured with the aid of God.

For intestinal rupture, a useful and approved plaster.

