Take 1 ½ ounces of Greek pitch, 1 ounce each of naval pitch and gum ammoniac and 2 ounces of fish glue. Put these 4 things to soften in strong vinegar for one whole day that lasts the day and the night. Then strain it and put it in a little pan on a slow fire. Put therein 1 ½ ounces of oil of mastic. Then put in these other things that are written below and make all into very fine powder. That is, 2 ounces each of mastic, tragacanth, incense, fenugreek flour, Armenian red clay, mummy and dragon's blood gum. Each should be select and good. Put them in little by little, stirring continuously with a rod until it is well incorporated and cook it into the form of a firm plaster. Then when it is cold, knead it for ½ hour with greased hands. Then spread it on chamois and put it on the rupture that has been shaved first. It should be warm when it is put on and say over it this prayer, 'Blessed be the place and the hour when God was born and was baptized in the River Jordan. How much pain this puncture or rupture does or will do is at the pleasure of God and of the Holy Trinity and of the glorious Virgin Mary, in the name of the Father, Son and Holy Spirit, Amen.' Say it with the Pater Noster. When you put on the plaster, put on the truss with more padding and tighten it well. Every morning take ½ spoonful of this powder each time in the form of a warm syrup with wine or broth and stay in repose and sleep if you can. Viz., 2 drams each of myrtle leaves, cypress nuts and mummy, ½ dram each of cloves, parsley, ginger and Indian leaf, 1 dram of dragon's blood gum and 1 dram of elemi gum. Make very fine powder of all of the above things, well sifted and incorporated. Continue to take this as described early in the morning and continue for a month or more while you wear the plaster. It will be useful to you to take the usual laxative during this time so that the body stays soft, without hard effort to go from the body. So for the first 3 days stay in bed and stay with the back straight and with the head lowered. Have great courage in these 3 days that it will help you greatly when the relaxed parts of the abdomen are freshly adhered together and more easily one regains health and is cured.

During the time that you will stay in this condition, it is to your advantage to keep from all those things that are adverse, not too much activity that is fatiguing, especially to your back. Do not be with your wife while wearing the truss and do not go without it. Observe all the rules listed above and, with the aid of God, you will be cured.

Another plaster to cure a rupture. Take equal amounts of consonubili and roots of greater comfrey, and amounts in your judgment of mastic, mistletoe on oak and roots of bramble, with clean wax and powdered myrtle at your discretion. Make a firm plaster of everything in the usual way and spread it on chamois or leather and put it on the rupture in the shaved pubic area. Put thereon a truss of iron made in this way, that is with discs of iron of the size not more than a wafer and inside put a flat stick in the center against the hernia the size of a little finger, well enclosed. This should fit very tightly and closely and do not ever go without it. At this time you will need to drink this powder in the morning, viz., take 3 ounces of ordinary lodestone and mix with ½ ounce of citroniaci . In the evening take half a spoonful with wine or water when you go to sleep. Keep yourself from every adverse thing and you will be cured.

For the fresh rupture of the intestine, a plaster that cures it quickly.

