Another plaster similar to the above which is no less good. Viz. Take one basket or hamper of the above snails with shells and remove them from their shells and cut out the inside and collect that fat until you have a full glass of it. Then take barley flour and mix them together in a little pot and boil this a while on a low fire, stirring until it hardens. Then put in 1 ounce of good theriac and incorporate well together until it hardens and watch carefully because, when it begins to boil, it seems that it wants to bubble over. It thickens as you stir until it pulls away at the bottom. Then remove it from the fire and will be a perfect plaster. Use it in the way that you have the one above and it will work well. Do not ignore the rules given above and, through God's grace, soon you will be cured.

The herb primula to cure a rupture.

Take the herb that is called primula and use some of the powdered herb in everything, in bread and in all your foods and broths and stews. Likewise, you can make a poultice and put it on the rupture and bind it well and tightly and soon you will be cured, because the name of this herb, arteticha, in the Greek vocabulary means nothing other than 'shrinking'. That is, it draws up each humor which in Greek is said ' sirta,' which is to say 'drawn up', because it draws up the humors and the intestine that came out and the rupture is cured.

To cure a rupture in the groin when the intestine has slid into the scrotal sac or is in a position to cause pain from hernia.

Take 1 handful each of the herb pagan tongue, that is bonifacia , the herb Adder's tongue fern, that is serpentina, the herb long plantain, that is centonervi or lanzola, the herb ground pine, the herb hepatica, the herb myrtle and the root of greater comfrey, 6 ounces each of lard from a male pig and ordinary oil, 4 ounces of new wax, a bowl of beans ground between 2 lodestones and 2 jugs of great and good red wine. Break up the lard very minutely with a cutter and put it in a little pot or pan and put therein the oil and the wine. All the herbs should be clean and cut very finely and put in with the root of comfrey. Boil everything together on a slow fire so it does not burn and let it reduce 1/3. Then extract and strain everything and press the herbs under the press and extract all the substance and put everything together. Then return it to the fire and put in the wax and 2 scruples of saffron and in addition as much powdered cloves. Compound these in the form of an unguent and it will be made and save it for your needs. When you wish to treat, spread it on a red cloth. First, since you want to cure him within a month or more, depending on whether the infirmity is old or new, say and have the patient say a Pater Noster and Ave Maria and touch the sore place with your hand, making over it the sign of the cross. Say this prayer over it 3 times, viz. 'Blessed be the place and the hour when Jesus was born and was baptized in the River Jordan. What this ointment does or will do for the pain of this puncture or rupture is at the pleasure of God and the Virgin Mary and the Holy Trinity and Saint Gosimo and Saint Damiano, so the illness can go and disappear. In the name of the Father, Son and Holy Spirit, Amen. So be it. +' Say this prayer 3 times over the sick one each time that you wish to treat him and you can treat in the morning and evening, as needed. See that the sick person is well bandaged and firmly tied and usually wears the truss, is careful of exertion, of eating and of the other things that are very adverse. By continuing the above rules and regulating activity, know that with the aid of God, soon he will be cured. This has been tested.

Poultice to cure a rupture or fleshy hernia.

Take 2 handfuls of roots of greater comfrey and the front hoofs of veal and cook them with plenty of water until they come apart and do not add water. Then take all the other things written below and make very fine powder and incorporate them with the broth, viz., 1 ounce each of mastic, gum arabic, cypress nuts and pine nuts, 2 ounces each of the herb hepatica and myrtle and 3 ounces each of Armenian red clay and dragon's blood gum. Incorporate everything together and make it in the form of a good poultice and divide it in 2 parts, putting it on a cloth or leather belt. Make it very warm and put it on the rupture or fleshy hernia and put several layers on with the truss. Fasten it very closely and have him stay with the body straight. At the end of 2 or 3 days change it and put on the other half that was reserved, again making it warm. So put on now one, now the other, and do this for one month or more until you know there is improvement. During this time, the patient should keep himself from all adverse things and, with the aid of God, he will be cured. This has been tested.

To cure the rupture that descends into the scrotal sac.

Take some of the herb that is called primrose that blooms in spring and grows in the meadows and along the banks of streams and puts out white flowers. The herb is good to eat in salads. Grind the herb and extract as much juice as you can and put this in a clean pot on the fire. When it begins to boil, remove it from the fire and strain it through bunting and it will be made. Save it in a glass vessel, well covered. Then early in the morning, take 4 ounces of it in the form of a syrup and put in one half spoonful or more of powder of the herb mouse ear and also some of the herb primula with a little powder of rusty fern that is an odorous herb very good for this purpose. Take this for 15, 20 or 30 days, more or less, according to how you feel the pain of the rupture improve, having first observed the good rules. Put this poultice on the rupture, fastened closely. That is, take some of this juice and roots of poison hemlock ground between two lodestones and mix them. It should not be too liquid. Put this on the rupture in the usual way, well wrapped and tight. If this poultice helps you little or not at all in your opinion, leave it and make this other plaster, viz. Take cypress nuts, pine nuts, valania that is little acorn caps, myrtle and incense resin, each at your discretion, everything pulverized finely, ½ ounce of powdered mastic and as much fir tree oil as needed to mix the above powders on a slow fire and make it firm enough to make a poultice. Then spread it on chamois and put it on the rupture on the groin and put on thick layers with a truss, tight and close. Keep from everything fatiguing as much as you can and do not remove it until it has dried up. Then make another and put it on with the same method as at first. Continue this for a month and a half or more. If you desire to be cured quickly, know that repose is its mother. Be careful that you keep from eating things causing gas and chills and in a short time you will recover health and be as you were before because such a remedy has been proved by many persons, especially by one who had it 50 years or more and is in good health, through God's grace, and so will you be if you observe the rules.

Oil to cure a rupture made by damage.

Take 5 and not fewer lizards, that is Ligurian green lizards, that are fat and alive. Take ½ lb. of the oldest olive oil you can possibly find and put it in a pot on the fire and put in the live lizards and let them die in the oil and cover it so they do not escape. Then put it before the fire on a brick and let it boil until it reduces 1/3 so the lizards are well cooked and all in pieces. Then remove it from the fire and let it cool and cover it and leave it in the sun for 15 days and leave in the animals which do not putrefy but stay clear as water. Save this and hold it dear. This oil helps greatly in ringworm, makes the hair grow long and lustrous, and helps in scrofula and has other virtues.

Take 2 ounces each of oil of the herb adder's tongue fern, that is the herb senza costa , oil of the herb mouse ear and ½ ounce of mastic oil, incorporate these together and heat well and rub the place of the rupture....

in the groin. Then have prepared some skin and fur of a rabbit cut and made into very fine powder and incorporated with powder of myrtle. Then so that you will have a very good, warm ointment, put on it some of this powder like a spice and spread the ointment to the thickness of half a finger. Put on warm cloths of wool or linen and on that the truss that should be tight, close and well fastened so the powder does not fall out. Stay in repose if you can for the action of the powder. Observe those things that have many times been said, not too much fatigue, do not eat things causing gas or chills and no women. By observing the rules of the treatment and with the guidance and your faith in God you will be cured because this oil by itself is sufficient to do the work but in a longer time. When all 4 are put together in one with the skin and fur and powder, they have greater force in that part of the illness that is due to relaxation. It makes a thick callous from inside out that is stronger than it was before. By the end of a month, more or less, if the person takes care and is medicated once every 2 or 3 days, you will cure him.

The herb mouse ear to cure rupture in the scrotal sac or in the groin.

