Take the herb called mouse ear that grows in harsh and wild mountainous places. This is the true and real hawkweed which is very suitable for infirmities such as rupture. When the moon is waning, take the amount of the herb that you want, wash it and when it is clean, dry it in the shade. Then make it into very fine powder, passed through a sieve, and save this to give to the sick one who is ruptured into the scrotal sac or where the abdomen has broken into the groin or one who has a gassy, fleshy, irritated, watery or intestinal hernia. Give a spoonful of the powder early in the morning to drink warm with 2 fingers of vinegar in the form of a syrup and he should repose for an hour. In the evening make an infusion of it and continue this for a month or more, one evening yes, the other no. When you wish to start drinking this powder in the morning, the evening before put this plaster on the rupture in the groin, made in this way, viz. Take ½ ounce each of incense and mastic, 2 drams each of mummy and cypress nuts, 1 ½ ounces each of greater comfrey and naval pitch, 1 ounce each of myrtle, mouse ear, dragon's blood gum and clean wax and 1 ounce each of myrtle oil and oil of adder's tongue fern and of mastic. Put the oil on a slow fire and the wax and the ground root of comfrey. Put in the incense, mastic, cypress nuts, myrtle, mouse ear and dragon's blood gum, all made into fine powder. Add the pitch and the mummy, finely ground, and incorporate everything well and continue stirring until it is made firm enough. Then spread it on chamois and put it on the rupture on the side with pain in the groin, first shaving the hair well. Put on the truss well-fitted and tight and when the truss is put on, the patient should be on his back with the body upward so that the humors are drawn back in.

You should do little strenuous activity for a month. Stay in repose if you can. Remember to do everything carefully and do not remove the truss either day or night. Continue every morning with the powder and do not miss a dose. Take care of yourself. Do not eat adverse things, nor cold, nor gas-causing, nor pork meat. If you help cure yourself, you will be cured as others have been in 50 days. They did penance and, through God's grace, they have been restored to health and no longer wear the brace because they do not feel the problem any more, through God's grace and they render glory to God omnipotent.

Electuary for those who are ruptured below or opening into the groin.

