Another electuary for this rupture, which is very perfect and good. Take the heart, skin and fur of a rabbit. Dry everything, cut it and make fine powder of it, in all 8 ounces, and 1 lb. of rind of pomegranate or wild pomegranate, ½ lb. of cypress nuts, 3 ounces of myrtle, 4 laurel berries, all in very fine powder, 30 heads of leeks and 10 dry white figs. Cut the leeks and figs finely and grind them well in a mortar with 2 ounces of mastic oil. Take 3 jugs of the best red wine that you can find and put it in a clean pot and put it on the fire. When it begins to boil, put in the above powder, little by little, and continue stirring. Lastly add the oil and let it boil very slowly so it does not start to smoke. Boiling it on the grill is better, until it reduces in half. Remove it from the fire and it will be made. Save it in a vessel for your needs. When you give it to the sick patient who has a rupture, give 2 spoonfuls early in the morning and if he is not able to take it because it is too sour, give it in the form of a pine nut rolled in flour and do not take it any other way. Then take 2 more spoonfuls and heat this well and rub the place of the rupture. Then put on some warm cloths and then wrap with a belt of fustian which should be firm and tight. Do this in the evening when he goes to sleep and in the morning give him some of this electuary to eat. Continue this for a month or more.

Keep yourself from all those things that are adverse. Know that with good care and primarily with the grace of God, you will be cured. Make another as you have made this electuary and continue until the rupture is cured.

The herb ground pine put on the rupture cures it.

Take 1 handful of the herb ground pine and put it in a little sack of linen cloth and put it on the rupture and bind it on tightly with a belt of fustian. This is done so it does not burn the flesh through its warmth. Continue this method for a month and stay in repose as much as you can. Refrain from things that are adverse and that make you sick. Before you make this medicament, first say a mass over the linen sack and over the herb in honor of God and of Saint Antimo whose day is the 20th of May. He is found in the list of martyred saints, which see. Change the herb every morning and you will be cured.

*Electuary for rupture. Take 4 lb. of clean honey and put therein to boil 6 ounces of roots of greater and lesser comfrey. Boil them very slowly until they are cooked as shown when a drop on marble stays firm. Then put in all the things written below, made into powder and the roots ground. That is, 4 ounces each of the herb pagan tongue and the roots of dittany with some leaves, 3 ounces of burdock seeds, 3 ½ ounces each of myrtle leaves and hepatica, 1 ounce of mastic, 3 drams of mummy, 1 ½ ounces of cinnamon, ½ ounce of cloves and 6 ounces of fine sugar. First put in the herbs, then the roots, the mastic and the mummy and let it boil a little. Then put in the cinnamon and cloves and remove it from the fire. Put in the sugar and stir until it is cold and it will be made, the perfect electuary. Give a dose in the evening and the morning and you will help the poultice work. With good care you will be cured in 30 days. It has been tested.

The herb sea bindweed cures rupture and purges the body and has other virtues.

Take some of the herb that is called sea bindweed which grows along the seashore and has leaves almost round. Eat some of this herb for 15 to 20 days in all the ways that you find comfortable, as long as it is cooked. It is said that it purges the body and pulls up the intestine and heals the rupture. Also it is said that he who eats 2 or 3 mouthfuls of it early in the morning with the dew on it is secure from having plague or almost any other infirmity in that year. Many persons say that if you make a powder the herb sea bindweed and drink one spoonful with warm broth early in the morning, you will make the body go as much as you wish and when you do not want to go any more, put the hands in cold water and at once it will stop. If you put some of this powder on a sore or wound or ulcerated leg, it cures carefully and well and without burning pain. Tests have been made of this with good results.

The herb verbena helps the intestinal organs.

Take 1 handful of the herb verbena, cook it in very good light red wine and eat and drink some of this warm wine early in the morning in the form of a syrup for 8 days in a row or more according to how you see the best results. By using it several times you will stay healthy. If a woman who is nursing has lost her milk, she should eat 3 leaves and at once it will return. This has been tested.

Another. Make a little bag of skin with holy thistle, so that it is sturdy, and put it on the groin on the side of the infirmity and leave it on continually, tight and close, day and night, and do not go without it. It is suitable for healing rupture. Avoid eating adverse things and too much exertion and you will be cured.

To cure a rupture with a decoction and a fomentation.

Take 1 handful each of cypress nuts and its leaves, 1 ½ ounces each of pomegranate rind and wild pomegranate, 2 ounces each of greater comfrey and rock alum and 6 drams of Armenian red clay. Mix and boil with good wine and do the fomentation with a clean sponge, several times. And put on this plaster written below, viz.

Tested poultice to go with the decoction to cure a rupture, viz.

Take 6 drams each of Greek pitch and naval pitch, 6 drams of mummy, 3 drams each of dragon's blood gum and Armenian red clay, ½ ounce each of rabbit skin and bone from the dead, 3 ounces of root of greater comfrey, 1 ounce each of myrtle, knot grass and wild pomegranate, 1 ½ ounces of new wax, 2 ½ ounces each of oil of myrtle and oil of scorpion and ½ ounce of oil of mastic. On a slow fire, put the oils, the wax, the comfrey, well-bruised, the broken up pitch, the dragon's blood gum and clay in powder, the skin cut finely, the myrtle, wild pomegranate and knot grass cut and ground very finely. Incorporate everything on a slow fire and you will have a well-made poultice. Put it on chamois and put that on the rupture in the usual way. Take care of yourself and you will be cured. It has been tested.

To mitigate the pain of rupture.

Take the root of the herb sweet clover, cooked in strong vinegar, and powder from a pine nut, grated or ground, and put it in the form of a plaster, as warm as one can bear, on the painful place of the rupture, binding it thereon and wrapping very tightly. Do this for 15 to 20 days and it improves health greatly.

It is said that the egg layed on the day of Ascension cures rupture.

Take 2 eggs layed on the day of Ascension and on the day of Easter say over them a mass of the Holy Spirit and bless them on that day. Write on them these words, viz. 'Just as it is true and I believe that Jesus Christ ascended into heaven on the day of Ascension, so may this sickness be freed through his power and his most holy merit from suffering.' Say this and touch the egg three times and save it and when it is dry you will be freed. It has been tested.

