Take equal amounts of cumin, bishop's weed, honey and salt and cook them with enough rose and violet oils and put this on warm. But first rub the place with oil of lavender and of dill, in equal amounts. Then put on this poultice, viz. Take 1 dram of cumin, 1 dram each of bishop's weed, German parsley, fenugreek seed, sedge, carrot, cistus gum, and cooked oil, 1 lb. of flour of laurel berries and 1 ½ ounces of vinegar. Put the flour and the vinegar with a little wine and boil it slowly and continue stirring with a rod and make it in the form of a poultice. Put in the other things and incorporate them well and it will be made. Then spread it on a cloth and put it on the testicles as warm as can be borne. Do this in the morning and evening, staying in repose a while, and in 15 to 20 days you will be cured. Do not eat bad things and do not do excessive activity and do not do things harmful to you so that soon, with the aid of God, you will be cured.

To cure little children of the water that comes in the little scrotal sac or a hernia.

Take 3 ounces of mastic oil, 1 ounce of lavender oil and 2 drams of Armenian red clay and 1 dram of dragon's blood gum in powder. Heat the oil and put in the powders and leave it on the grill for a little and it will be made. When you use it, warm it and rub the groin and wrap on a stupe and a warm cloth well. He should be careful of activity and he will be cured.

Oil made of rosemary flowers with its tested virtues.

Take the oldest olive oil that you can find in whatever amount you have and take as many rosemary flowers as you have and put them in the oil and let them stay for 2 days in a warm place or in the sun in a covered vessel. Then take some pieces of brick or of earthenware jars that are new and have not touched water and heat them very hot. Put them to cool down in the oil with the flowers. Then remove them from the oil and grind them finely in a mortar so that nothing is lost. Put everything together, the powdered brick, the flowers and what is left of the oil. Distill everything on a slow fire into a glass flask, following the usual method, and do this with skill. Save this blessed liquor in glass, well stoppered, and cherish it because we will say below some of its virtues, viz.

The virtues of the oil made with rosemary flowers.

Here we will deal with some virtues of the oil of rosemary made with flowers as you should have learned to make it above. First it is powerful to remove cold from all the members chilled through some accident to the head, the hands, the feet and the chest, if the place is rubbed with the very warm oil.

Another. It is powerful for all the cracks in the feet and hands caused by cold, especially for use in the wintertime when they usually come.

Another. It is powerful to heal all the sores of the flesh in every place on the body, even for any animal, by rubbing with very warm oil.

Another. It is effective in rewarming every chilled nerve in whichever place on the human body or of other animals, through cold gout or other causes of cold. One of the many powers that it has is that the tremor of the hands or head that occurs through great coldness is diminished by the heat it develops. It is very powerful against cold.

Another. It is very powerful for those who have lost hands or feet through cold who have not been helped very well, that is to say for those who have damaged the neck and the nerves of any limb through cutting or bad medication.

Another. It is powerful for those who have gout, who are not able to walk because of this infirmity or are not able to support themselves on their feet when this has happened through chilling of the nerves.

Another. It is powerful for those who have a stiff neck or sore throat and who, through natural causes, are not able to turn the head well.

