Another. It is powerful against kidney and bladder stones, By drinking the oil and rubbing it warm on the neighboring parts, it corrodes them and breaks them, turning them into gravel which is purged through the meatus in the usual way. It is powerful for cleaning the bladder inside and out. You should know that when the gravel moves, it stings. .

Another. It is powerful when urine flow is suppressed. Drinking a little of it provokes a great quantity of urine in one in whom it is reduced by stricture of the meatus and in one who is able to urinate only with much difficulty.

Another. It is powerful for each inflamed and swollen limb or head or forehead, that is for one who has what is called the French sickness or by other names.

Another. It is powerful for every distress in hearing, which comes from every kind of great coldness and flux of these bad humors with sharp pains and deafness.

Another. It is powerful against worms in the ears that bite or do not bite and against the cracks from these and from every other malady.

Another. It is powerful in paralysis and in every joint pain including the joints of the fingers, hands and feet.

Another. It is powerful for torsion of the mouth caused by plague when it is used as an ointment and also when it is drunk.

Another. It is powerful for every ache in the abdomen which is a sharp pain, because it mitigates and draws up all such pains by warming and heating the interior of the abdomen.

Another. It is powerful for pains of the uterus in women. In whatever condition they are, either healthy or sick, they are soon cured.

Another. It is powerful in coldness of the uterus because anointing with it and drinking it causes menstruation at its normal time.

Another. It is powerful in prolapse of the uterus caused by coldness. If the uterus is rubbed with cotton wool many times it will be retained and cured.

Another. It is powerful in kidney pain and backache in any person or animal when the place is rubbed with the oil and when a poultice is made by adding ammonium chloride to the oil and some warming herbs, flowers and roots, such as male wormwood, hyssop, creeping thyme, southernwood, mint, sage, flowers of pennyroyal, laurel, gentian root and basil seed.

Another. It is powerful in fistulas or abcesses that do not come to a head, by adding roots of white lily, rue, egg yolk and white onions cooked under the ashes and incorporated as a liquid. It rapidly helps them and may cure.

Another. It is powerful in spenetics, that is those who have hardening of the spleen through too much coldness, because it increases humidity and reheats the spleen gently when it is rubbed and the warm oil is drunk.

Another. It is powerful in congestion of the head and nose caused by coldness wherever there is impediment and if the eyes are watering and the nares are full of thick matter. The patient should be rubbed and should drink the oil. If the patient eats a great deal of salt without anything else, little by little, and afterwards drinks this oil, soon he will be freed. If the patient sneezes when eating the salt or if he simply eats it, he will be cured. It is better if the salt is drunk with theriac. This is tested and true.

Another. It is powerful in coldness of the head. Rubbing the head with the oil wonderfully rewarms the brain and comforts it.

Another. It is powerful in amnesia. The lost memory is recovered if the oil is rubbed directly on the parts of the head where the power of memory is located. If you first put a little rose vinegar with this oil, it is said that it is more powerful but it must be rubbed before and after the vinegar is added.

Another. It is powerful against toothache in all ways because the pain is given up through its heating when the gums are rubbed with this.

Another. It is powerful in congestion of the lungs because it purges the congestion that causes the chest cough. It helps the person who is coughing, whether it is a dry or soft cough, so one should drink this oil and rub the chest with it very warm.

Another. It is powerful in the dry or soft cough in what is called stricture of the chest. Therefore it helps wonderfully in such distress because if enough of this oil is drunk tepid, it resolves the congested humors and comforts the interior parts and opens the channels of the lungs very effectively.

Another. It is powerful in tearing of the eyes. Rubbing the eyelids with it dries them. It is more powerful in swelling of the eyes and the pain and redness through swelling and excess of blood.

Another. It aids the eyesight of every person or other animal, either old or young. Mix this oil with some bastard lovage and fennel seed and drink it repeatedly and soon you will have good eyesight.

Another. It is powerful against scrofulas by rubbing it on warm. If they are broken open, press this oil therein.

Another. It is powerful against every poisonous bite, that is of scorpions, wasps, bees or spiders. Rub the bite with the warm oil.

Another. It is powerful against syncope, that is against the weakness of the heart and stomach, if it is drunk, although in this distress one may want theriac and good wine.

Another. It is useful for fishermen who fish in the sea, pond, lake or rivers, if the nets are rubbed with the oil with a little musk because as they smell such a sweet odor many fish will be taken.

