Another. It is powerful for those who have dysentery with diarrhea. Drink some of it and eat it with knot grass mixed with flour and cooked on the grill or in a pan. It is powerful for those who spit blood and urinate it and for those where the blood is collected in the head because of an abcess or blow. The place should be rubbed well with warm oil.

Another. It is powerful for blood which has come in the eye. Put juice of dill with the oil and rub both temples and on the head where through too much coldness the brain has lost the power to see from the eyes and they are tearing heavily. Therefore, who drinks this is known to have a good head that is warm and dry and not humid with excess coldness.

Another. It is powerful against cracks and fissures when it is applied frequently to the place. Also it is very powerful as a poultice with juice of dill.

Another. It is powerful against the dry itch. Rubbing with warm oil sends it away rapidly.

Another. It is powerful against sores or scabs in men or women. By rubbing with the warm oil in the morning and evening you will soon be cured. Be careful what you eat.

Another. It is powerful against every fistula wherever it is. This is the way. Take juice from cabbage leaves and mix it with the oil and put it on as a poultice with juice of wormwood and the substance from ground snails. It helps greatly and will cure rapidly.

Note that many of the above virtues of this oil are nearly the same as those of balsam and in practice you will know its great power by testing it and becoming an expert. Some make this oil in an easier way but I do not believe it to be of such great virtue. They take old olive oil, the oldest they can find, and as much pure and clean tamarind flowers as can be put in the oil. Put it in a pot and let it stay in the sun, day and night, for 20 to 30 days, well covered. Then put it underground for a month in a warm place where the sun beats on it. Then bring it out and strain the oil carefully through a double thickness of cloth and put it again in the sun for a month to purify and it will be made, very odorous and rich. When you use it for all your needs, make it warm and you may even tell the patient to drink it because its virtue is to warm and comfort human feelings.

A wine to open a fistula and cure an ulcer.

Take 1 ½ jugs each of strong vinegar and sharp white wine and put in 8 ounces of slaked lime in powder and boil it until it reduces 1/3. Remove it from the fire and let it settle. Strain it so it is very clear. Then put in all these things made into very fine powder, that is, 1 ounce each of rock salt, ammonium chloride and saltpeter and 3 ounces of ash from burnt feathers. Let it stand for one whole day in a well-covered vessel in a warm place so they are well incorporated. Then distill through felt or strain it finely. Then put 1 ½ ounces of iron rust into the wine and it will give the color red to all the wine and it will be made. When you use it, wet some cloths well and put them on and in the sore and treat in the evening and morning. This wine has the strength to remove bad flesh and induce good. It even cures the scab that comes in the rear. If you make some copper become red hot in the fire and extinguish it in this wine, the copper will become white in color and will appear like silver. This has been tested. In this wine you have a cure for the above infirmity.

Another. Garlic and sage cooked with rose oil and ground and rubbed on an ulcer remove the pain.

