Another powder against fistula and canker. Take 1 lb. of quicklime, 1 ounce of copper sulfate, ½ ounce of sulfur, 4 ounces of powdered orpiment, 6 ounces of barley flour, 8 ounces of white honey and 3 ounces of strong vinegar. Incorporate everything together and make a paste. Make little balls and dry them thoroughly in the warm oven. Then regrind them and make very fine powder and save this for your needs. When you wish to use the powder in the illness of fistula or canker, put a little in the top of the tent that you put on the sore and treat once a day or twice a day. Know that the powder eats, corrodes and consumes all the bad flesh and makes the good grow.

Another against fistula. Take branches of green ivy without leaves, cut them minutely and distill them in glass. Wet some cloths and put them on the sore but first it is purged. Then put on some leaves of bramble.

Another for the above. Take 3 or 4 live lizards and boil them in a little water. Then dry them and make very fine powder and give it to drink, if the fistula is inside. It will be removed by vomiting. If it is outside, put on some of this powder and it will be cured.

Another for the above illness. Take flour of red chick peas and mix it with raw honey in the form of a warm poultice. Put it on several times and it will cure a fistula. If the fistula is open, take roots of the herb toadflax, grind them well with male pork blood and make an unguent. Put it on warm and it will cure fistula and canker.

Another. If the powder of orpiment is too caustic, put in a little of this honey and it will decrease its action.

The herb bonifacia, that is pagan tongue.

Bonifacia is called by many 'pagan tongue' because it has a leaf in the shape of a little pointed tongue placed in the midst of the large leaf. For this it is said that it aids stutterers, those born in great numbers in the mountains of Genoa and in the Duchy of Urbino in the mountains. You should know that this herb is most powerful in sickness of the womb, especially in prolapse. Giving a spoonful of the powder to women to drink in warm broth or wine at the time of the displacement of the womb, rapidly relieves and cures the sickness of the womb.

Also it is powerful and wonderful for those who have hernias in the scrotum or in the groin. Make a powder of its roots or of the herb or both mixed, and give a spoonful to the patient to drink in the morning at dawn with warm broth or wine in the form of a syrup and again in the evening. Continue this drinking for a month or more, until at the end you feel cured. It may seem to you that in the first days all the intestines want to come out of the body through that sick part and you are advised to put on a band or truss and wear it continually, day and night, with it thick and well-wrapped and tight. If you are able to stay a while in repose, you will be cured more quickly of the fissure or rupture. Watch what you eat and keep from adverse things and, with the aid of God, you will be cured quickly because this has been tested. For those who do not have fluent speech, holding some of the herb in the mouth and eating it helps greatly. For little children who do not have fluent language, placing these little leaves on the tongue will make the tongue flexible. This is very well tested and true.

The herb adder's tongue fern or argentina that is ribless.

