This herb has different names in different locations, that is, adder's tongue fern or silverweed or ribless fern, because it does not have veins as have other leaves. This herb is well known in Lombardy and especially in the Piedmont. It is found beginning in the month of May and continues until the first half of June. Then it is no more to be seen. This herb is soft and flexible to touch and oily and its leaf is similar to plantain but smaller. It does not make a stalk and grows adventitiously in the meadows and it is very beautiful to see there. But it is more beautiful for its virtues because it has marvelous efficacy in healing wounds and especially new ones and also those made by stabs. You make oil from its leaves in this way. Take ordinary oil, the oldest that you have, and put it in a vessel with the herb. Cover the vessel well and leave it for a month or more in the sun. Then boil it for an hour on a water bath. In this way the herb is cooked and amplifies its power. Leave it in the sun for 8 to 10 days and it will be made. Save it as a treasure. This oil is powerful, when rubbed on warm, for all difficulties of the eyes and is especially powerful in fresh wounds and in all stabs where the wound is narrow. Put it on with a tent and soon it will heal without distress. It removes the pain and removes muscle spasms especially effectively in old wounds. The herb can be made into powder, otherwise the herb itself is eaten with a fresh egg or broth. Continuing it heals hernias marvelously when the rupture is rubbed with very warm oil. It is put on thickly and tied very tightly and carefully and, with care and with the aid of God, the rupture will be cured. Do this with confidence that this has been tested. It has many other virtues.

The herb milzara or dead nettle that has a white spot in the middle of the leaf and grows around hedges.

This herb is called milzara because it readily cures the spleen and is also called lataiola because in women who eat it and are nursing it increases the milk as does the herb burdock in those who have lost it through an impediment. In the Greek vocabulary it is called galiopsi which is to say 'milk'. It has been shown many times to cure the spleen. I tell you that you should gather some of this herb in the half moon and dry it in the shade and wind and make very fine powder of it. Take one spoonful in a fresh egg early in the morning and continue for 15 to 20 days. Do not do anything intemperate. You should know that in the section on curing the spleen, I say first purge the spleen and soon, with the aid of God, you will be cured. If you will eat the plant raw, you will be cured sooner. This has been tested.

The herb scabiosa and some of its virtues.

