Take the herb scabiosa in the waning of the moon when it is nearly mature and dry it in the shade and make very fine powder of it. Put it on a sore or ulcerated leg that first should be washed several times with warm wine. It heals this wonderfully. If you put it on a gall on the back of a horse with powder of a burnt old shoe, very soon it makes a cure so that the skin returns. Likewise, if you grind the herb between two lodestones and put it on warm, it soon cures. It is good in either way, in herb or in powder. Also it is powerful in distress of the stomach and especially in catarrh that is in the lungs or in heavy cough. Eat the herb or drink some of its distilled water. It is of great help in removing any kind of itch. With the powder one makes a good unguent and it has many other properties that I do not write down.

The herb rue and some of its tested virtues.

Rue of the gardens is warm and dry in the third degree and the wild rue in the fourth degree. Taking some of the cultivated variety removes flatulence and increases the humidity of the body and greatly helps the lower intestine. Drinking a decoction of it takes away the flatulence and the tortion and pain in the body caused by viscous humors. Cooked in oil and made into suppositories, it dissolves the excessive flatulence that accompanies excessive humors that envelop the intestines. It is also powerful in cloudiness in the eyes and in poor vision in any way that you eat it, either as the herb or in powder or cooked. Also bathing the eyes with some of its distilled water alternately with rose water in the morning, clarifies the vision greatly and also has many other virtues.

To stop the flow of blood from wounds or veins that are pierced or broken or have burst in the chest.

Take the same amount each of sarcocol gum, mummy, Armenian red clay and dragon's blood gum and make them into very fine powder. Mix them and put this on sores where the blood flows from the vein and it will be stopped at once. If it is a wound, say over it this holy prayer that has been tested many times and all have been cured through God's grace. Viz., '+ Cross of Christ aid me. + Blood stay fast in yourself as Christ did in himself. Cross of Christ save me. Blood stay in your vein as Christ did in his pain. Cross of Christ defend me. Blood stay fast and strong as Christ did at his death. In the name of the Father, Son and Holy Spirit. Amen. + + + .' Say it three times over the wound with 3 Pater Noster and 3 Ave Maria and have the patient say them also. Then attach the little prayer around the neck and say it for 3 mornings in a row and, through God's grace, the blood will be stopped. It is tested.

Another if the vein may be letting out blood. Take some well-ground rue, incorporate it with rabbit fur and put this on warm. Bind it well and soon the blood will be stopped. Also you can take several grains of wheat and chew them, but do not have eaten garlic, and put a very thick layer on the vein that spurts blood or on the wound and soon the blood will be stopped.

Another. Take an egg white and spider's web and burnt linen cloth and rabbit fur cut finely and mix these together and put this on a stupe on the wound and wherever the cut is, this will soon stop the blood.

Another for a cut or broken vein. Grind some long plantain and put it on and soon the blood will be stopped.

Another. Take burdock with well-ground pork fat and put it warm on the vein and soon it will clot.

Another to stop a vein in the chest. Take fresh egg shells that are clean and grind them and make very fine powder and take equal amounts of rabbit fur and down of holy thistle, cut very finely, and equal amounts of mummy and dragon's blood gum and incorporate everything together. The patient should drink a spoonful with water of long plantain and water of betony, each 2 ounces, warm. Give this to drink in the morning and evening and soon, through God's grace, the vein will stop. The sick one should speak little, stay very warm, eat lightly of well-cooked food, not go too much in the fresh air and stay in repose as much as he can so he will be cured rapidly. This is tested.

*Another to stop bleeding. Write these 3 words on parchment and put it in the mouth of the patient. Viz., ' Agios, Otehos, Athanathos .' At once he will be cured.

Another to heal breaks or cracks in the vein of the chest that do not spurt blood. Viz. Take fern rootlets and wash them in 9 waters. Then boil them in the best white wine until that is half consumed. Give 3 ounces of this decoction to the patient to drink every morning in the form of a warm syrup and soon the bleeding will be stopped.

Have the patient say 3 Pater Noster and 3 Ave Maria. You say these holy words 3 times, touching the chest and making the sign of the cross over it. Say, 'Blood stand + as our Lord, Jesus Christ, stood in his torment. + Blood stay strong as our Lord Jesus Christ stood at his death +. Blood stay as our Lord Jesus Christ stood in his faith. + In the name of the Father, Son and Holy Spirit, + Amen. + + + .' Every time you treat it, say this and, through God's grace, soon it will be cured.

Powder that stops the blood from every wound and cut vein.

Take copper sulfate and heat it well and make fine powder. Do not let it stay open too much to the air because it may draw up too much humidity and lose some of its effectiveness. Take 1 ounce of this and of pulverized dragon's blood gum and 2 drams each of finely-cut rabbit fur and holy thistle down and incorporate these well together. Then put some of this powder on the wounds or cuts where the blood does not want to clot. Put enough on and wrap very tightly so the bleeding will soon stop without fail.

