Another. This powder is powerful to stop blood from bleeding piles, that is when leeches have been attached around the anus and they have sucked blood from the hemorrhoids and then the blood does not want to stop. Putting on a great amount of powder and binding it tightly makes the blood clot again. This is a good secret, proved many times.

If by chance blood is coming from the nose, take an egg white and beat it in a bowl. Then spread it on a cotton wool stupe and put some of this powder on the egg white and put it on the forehead and also on the broken vein and soon it will be stopped. Also inhale some of this powder up the nose and at once it will be stopped. This has been tested.

The virtues of human blood converted into water in the still.

Take human blood that is freshly drawn from a young, healthy man and put it at once to distill in the glass still. Save all the water that comes from it with great care. Also some take this blood and distill it 7 times and some 3 or 4 times. Some take this blood and put it in a large, well-covered container. Then they put it in warm horse manure and let it stay for 9 days in a row. Then they distill it which, they say, aquires more power by being distilled 7 times on a slow fire.

These are the virtues of the water from human blood.

Viz. The water has many virtues in medicine, especially in fainting fits. Drink it warm during the morning in the form of a syrup. It is powerful for the memory. It is powerful in poisoning and in pain of the heart. It is powerful in weakness of the chest. It heals every infirmity of the lungs and purges the blood more than any other thing. It is powerful for every flux from the body and in pain of the hips. It opens the veins and strengthens the nerves and all the body. If you put a piece of glass in this water it will become soft as wax. If it is distilled 7 times, as described, it becomes a kind of perfect balsam and has this property that if one who may be near death and has lost speech is given a little of this water, tepid, he will speak at once. Also it may do as much for one who has lost his sight, if the eyes are bathed repeatedly with this water. Made in the designated way it will render very great benefit in all the above infirmities. It has been tested.

For retracted nerves that are not able to stretch through damage or other cause.

