Take 3 ounces of marrow from the shin bone of the ox, 1 ½ ounces of goat fat, 2 ounces each of chicken fat and powdered incense, 1 ounce of clear, white turpentine and a good handful of marigold flowers, cut very finely. Every other thing should be cut minutely and put everything together in a little pot. Boil it enough on a slow fire so that everything is cooked. Then put it in a little pointed sack and strain it into a basin of cold water and press it well so that all the substance is forced out of the little sack. Regather the fat that is on top of the water and save it in a flask for your needs. It should be well covered. When you want to treat the retracted or painful nerves heat it very well and rub always downward. Do this several times and you will cure every debility of the nerves. It is tested.

Another to comfort every nerve and to remove pain. Take 1 handful of wormwood and boil it in very good wine. Wash the sore place with this wine and let it dry in place. Then put on some other wormwood bruised on a hot brick and soon it will lift the pain.

Another to comfort nerves. Take unwashed wool and put it in a pan to soak with a little honey until it is well warmed. Then put in powdered cumin like a spice and put this warm on the painful nerve and soon it will be cured. Also the leaves of the herb castor bean, cooked in wine and put on warm, will soon remove the pain.

Another to lift the pain of any swollen nerve. Take 2 ounces of leaves and flowers of tamarind, 1 ounce of flowers of camomile and a little white bread flour and put it to soak in camomile water with a little ordinary oil and put everything together. Then mix it with white wine and rose water. Then boil it until it becomes fairly thick. Put it warm on the sore place and the afflicted part of the nerve or the swelling. By continuing this you will soon cure the nerve.

Liquor to join nerves that are shrunken.

Take ½ bowl of earthworms and wash them well with good white wine so that no earth remains. Then empty an egg and put them all in the egg shell and put in the egg white and a little oil of tartar. Cover it well so that nothing can go out and seal it all around with clay and let it dry. Then put it in horse manure for 20 days. Remove it and empty it into a bowl and with a rod mix everything well together, the earthworms, egg white and oil, so that it forms a liquid unguent and it is made. Save it in a bottle, well covered, and when you use it make it hot and rub the painful place in the drawn and swollen nerves and put on very warm unwashed wool. Bind it on and, through God's grace, soon they will be cured. It has been tested.

Another for one who has damaged a nerve and it is swollen. Take young leaves of elder and mallow, each the same amount, cut finely, and 6 to 8 leaves of sage, cut similarly, and boil everything together in strong vinegar until they are cooked. Put them on the sore nerve in the form of a plaster and it will soon remove the pain and the damage from the swollen nerve. You will soon cure it.

For dislocated, painful or injured bones in the feet or hands or whatever place that at times hurts or swells although the wound has healed.

Take wormwood, rue and cumin in equal amounts and a white onion and cook everything together in rose oil or ordinary oil until it reduces 1/3. Then spread it on a cloth in the form of a warm poultice and put it on the sore place. Put on a warm stupe and bandage well and tightly and keep it quiet. Do this in the morning and evening and soon it will be cured.

Another for broken bones. Take equal amounts of arum roots and lard from a male pig and grind them together finely. Make this very warm in the form of a very warm poultice. Put it on the fracture in the morning and in the evening, well bandaged and tight, and soon it will be cured.

The best and holy remedy for dislocated bones and bones out of place.

Take new rose oil and fine powder of myrtle or its seed. Then have prepared 2 or 3 layers of stupe of hemp fibers and a large bundle or two of them. Heat the rose oil very well and the powder if you can. Then with your hands take the limb that is injured and touch it with skill to judge to bind where the bone can be coming out and over this place where the bone comes out, put your two index fingers, one over the other in the form of a cross. Say 3 Pater Noster and 3 Ave Maria to the sick person and as you treat say a prayer of thanks to God. Then say in secret these holy words 3 times with 3 signs of the cross, viz. 'In the name of God, the Virgin Mary, flower and seed, and the Son of God, go back bone. Nerve and flesh return inside as his did for the Virgin. Amen.' Make the sign of the cross 3 times. Do not press too hard with the lower finger in joining the bone that has come out and over this make the sign of the cross. Rub it with this rose oil very warm with a feather. Then put on the warm powder of mrytle and over that put the warm stupes closed very firmly around the injury and over that put a warm double cloth and bandage it closely across so that the bone comes little by little into place by the warmth and the other dressings with the good ligature. Do this for 3 days and not more. The patient should stay in repose so that soon, with the aid of God, he will be cured. This has been proven many times.

*For dislocated bones or torn nerves. Say over the injury, viz. 'Our Lord, Jesus Christ, was nailed on the cross. Bone, blood, nerve. He was wounded. Our Lord, Jesus Christ, was raised on the cross. Bone, blood, nerve. He was restored. So may this be restored as our Lord, Jesus Christ, was restored to the arms of his glorious mother, the Virgin Mary. + + + . In the name of the Father, Son and Holy Spirit. Amen.'

To hold a dislocated bone in place in a joint.

Take the white of an egg and 1 ounce each of turpentine and rose oil and incorporate the turpentine and the oil together on a little fire. Remove it from the fire and put in the egg white and stir well. Then put it on a warm stupe of carded flax and put that on the sore and swollen injury. Tie it well and tightly with a bandage. Do this for 2 days, morning and evening, and soon you will cure it. But first when you have been made ill or have fallen or received a blow or other injury, at once draw out that limb, arm or leg so that the bone goes in place. If it is a damaged foot, pull it and put the foot on a round board and press it on. Even if it hurts you, use force so the bone goes in its place and soon it will be cured, because as the injury is cooled, the swelling and pain from the humor goes away. Do this above described treatment as soon as you can and soon the pain will lift and you will be cured. I have proved this on one foot.

Another for a damaged nerve. Take milk of a red cow and put therein 1 handful of dry roses and let them infuse all night. In the morning remove them from the milk and save them. Then put a scant 1 handful of wheat bran in the milk and boil until it becomes in the form of a poultice. Take out the bran and put the removed roses in the warm bran and mix it well. Put this warm on the painful and damaged nerve. Do this several times and soon you will cure it.

Another to cure a broken bone rapidly. When you are in front of the sick one, ask if he wants to be cured. Have him say 3 Pater Noster and 3 Ave Maria and then you take the damaged limb in your hand and touch it where it is sore in that place where the bone is coming out and make over it the sign of the cross and hold your 2 index fingers in the form of a cross over the injury and say these holy words 3 times, viz. 'In the name of God, the Virgin Mary, seed and flower, Jesus Christ died on the cross. So may the bone, flesh, nerve and blood return to its shape just as Jesus Christ returned to his. In the name of the + Father, + Son and Holy Spirit, +. Amen.' Say it for 3 mornings in a row and put on a stupe of carded flax well wet in urine. Heat it on the warm coals and put it on the injury and on it another stupe, fastened well and tightly because in the binding lies the cure. Soon you will cure it.

For broken bones, to bring them together and reduce the pain.

Take 1 ounce each of Armenian red clay, aloe, clay from Lemnos and dragon's blood gum and make fine powder of all these things. Then incorporate the white of a well-beaten egg. Wet your pads made of finely carded flax in that and put them on the injury, dressing the bones well in the usual way, putting the bones in shape. Bind it well with bandages so the patient keeps the injured limb quiet and soon it will be cured.

Unguent made by the Venerable Bede to heal broken bones.

Take 2 lb. of human blood or blood from a red pig, 3 ounces of hepatic aloe, 1 lb. of sarcocol gum, and 4 ounces each of juniper gum, gum ammoniac, galbanum, pitch, glue made of scrapings from parchment, fish glue, incense, mastic, turpentine, Armenian red clay, dragon's blood gum, rose oil and new wax. Compound these in the way that other unguents are made, that is all the gums are well melted and incorporated with the blood and the oil. Then put the whole composition on a slow fire and cook it in the usual way and finally put in the wax and remove it from the fire. Stir until it is cold and it will be made. Save it for your needs and when you wish to treat a fractured bone or other joint injury, make it warm and you will quickly see a good result, for it is composed from that which was said by that holy man, the Venerable Bede, and is held as the greatest secret. It is powerful.

For retracted nerves in the finger, a complete and good water.

Take 1 ounce of rose water, 3 ounces of brandy distilled 3 times, 2 ounces each of water of cow dung and water made from bread. Mix these waters together and when you want to treat retracted nerves, make it very warm. It should be kept well stoppered. Then wet some pieces of fine linen and put these warm on the injury and put on other warm cloths and fasten them well. Do this in the morning and evening and you will cure it.

To remove a wen quickly and heal it with facility.

Take the yolk of an egg and some finely-ground salt, enough to make a paste of the yolk, and work it until it becomes like an unguent. Then spread it on cloth or chamois and put it on the wen, well-covered. Change it 2 times a day. Do this for 3 or 4 days in a row and all the wen will be broken down. But be warned that some are harder than others to remove so it may be better to follow the method given above for more days until the patient will feel the wen loosen. Then take old male pork lard and elder leaves and grind them well together and make it in the form of a poultice. Put it very warm on the wen 3 or 4 times in a day and the night and do this for 3 days in a row. When you have done this, take galbanum and spread it on chamois and put it on the wen in the form of a diachylon plaster. Have it cover all the wen and change it 2 times a day until the wen comes out. Then you will be confident of curing rapidly and soon the flesh will be cured. Do not use other medications because the galbanum breaks down the skin that is above the wen and it remains pure white and broken down. If you cannot remove it intact, draw it out in pieces, little by little, and the sick person will not feel it because all is deadened. Then continue with the galbanum as above until the flesh returns to its place without any other treatment and, through God's grace, you will be able to cure. This has been tested.

Another to resolve a wen. Take 1 dram each of gum ammoniac, Roman pellitory and eyebright and 1 ½ scruples of saltpeter. Mix them together with wax and and a little strong vinegar to make a plaster and then put it on the wen.

Another. Take a green lizard, large and alive, and put it in a flask with olive oil and put it before the fire and boil it until it is cooked and put therein 4 pellets of goat dung. Then remove it from the fire and put it in the sun for 15 to 20 days. Heat this oil well in an egg shell and rub the wen with it warm and put on very warm unwashed wool and other warm cloths and wrap well. By continuing this sequence, the wen will soon be resolved. But be warned that if it is too old it will not go away but when they are young they will go soon.

Juice of the herb of Saint John, that is burdock, against a spasm.

On the morning of Saint John's day, before the sun rises, gather the soft tips of burdock and fill a pot, pressing them in. Cover it well with parchment and leave it at the threshold of the room for 1 or 2 months and all will be converted to juice from its state without doing anything else. Then strain it and save this juice for these uses, viz. When you have a blow on the legs or they are bruised or on the shoulders or other injury with very great spasm and wounds with great suffering, wet some cloths in this juice and put them thickly on the blow or fracture or cut, especially in the beginning so the pain does not go to the heart. Also doing this for warm gout alleviates the pain. If you bathe the testicles with it, do not make use of women. This has been tested many, many times in all of the above conditions.

Oil for painful nerves.

Take 1 handful each of dill, wormwood, rue and sage. Cut them and boil them in 3 lb. of the oldest olive oil that you can find. Boil everything together in a pot on a slow fire, well covered so that nothing can escape, until it has reduced one third. Remove it from the fire and let it cool and save this oil with the herbs in it. Rub the nerve with this very warm in the morning and evening and soon it will be cured.

