Alternatively, rub the painful nerve with this ointment. Take 2 ounces each of some sheep fat and some marrow of its shin bones or other bones of the same animal and some ox marrow. Cut them minutely and mix everything together on a little fire and in the evening rub the damaged place of the nerve with this ointment, very warm. Do this several times and soon you will cure it.

*To heal a wen, viz.

Take 2 ounces of lead filings and let them stand in strong vinegar for 4 days, changing the vinegar each day, 2 ounces each of hepatic aloe and sulfur, 3 ounces of clean wax, 1 ounce each of fine sugar and turpentine and 4 eggs. Incorporate everything together and make a plaster. Then take a thin sheet of lead and hollow out an opening over the wen and put on it some of this warm plaster and medicate twice a day. If the unguent does not have a good texture, add a little more turpentine and it will cure.

*Another to heal a wen, viz. Take 1 ounce of dried rock alum and make very fine powder of it and ½ ounce each of soap, hepatic aloe and lead filings. Incorporate everything together in a little good strong vinegar and a little egg white and leave this for 4 days. Do this 3 times, that is it will be 12 days in all. When you want to use it, take a little of this paste and wrap it as before and put it on the wen. Cover it with a thin sheet of lead made to the size of the wen and every day change the unguent. As the wen shrinks, reduce the lead cover. Continue this for at least a month and you will cure it.

*To remove a wen. Take equal amounts of diachylon , saltpeter and galbanum. Incorporate them and put this on warm. Do this several times and it destroys the wen.

To mitigate the pain of gout and other pains.

Take 3 ounces of olive oil, the oldest that every you can find because the older it is the better it is, 1 ounce of male incense, 3 drams of flowers of dill, ½ ounce of old lard from a male pig and 1 fresh egg white. The incense and dill should be made into very fine powder and the lard cut finely and everything mixed, barely warm, and hold it about an hour to incorporate and it will be made. Then wet therein some little linen cloths and put them several times on the pain of the gout or on other joint pains as well and soon it will lift a great part of the pain.

Also, if you will rub the sore place of the gout with some cut-up cassia it will remove the pain quickly so you will not be aware of it. This has been tested.

Remedy most certain to lift the pain of hot gout with one ointment, very well tested and true.

Take 3 ounces of olive oil, the oldest and most antique that you can find because the older it is, the better it works. It penetrates better and acts more quickly. Also take 2 ounces each of yellow litharge, dill, incense, mercury and washed white lead, ½ ounce of ordinary salt and one fresh egg white, well beaten. All the other things should be made into very fine powder. Then take a clean little pot and put therein 4 ounces of very, very good white wine and the above oil and put them on the burning coals in a frying pan or put the little pot in a little warming pan with hot ashes. When it starts to boil put in the dill, the incense, the litharge, the lead and the mercury. But first soak the mercury with saliva or with the juice of a sweet apple in a bowl for a half hour. Then put it in and stir continuously with your rod so everything is well incorporated and so it does not burn. Let it boil until the wine is used up and in this way it will take on the form of an unguent. When it has boiled very slowly for an hour or more, remove it from the fire and stir for a piece and if, by chance, the wine was not all used up it will come on top of the unguent and throw this out and keep only the unguent and it will be made. Keep this as something dear and the older it is the better and more penetrating it is and it works more quickly. When the gouts come to visit with the usual pain in the joints, quickly apply this ointment from the grace of God, rubbing the sore place, and soon the pain will depart and go to another place. You will then rub the place to where the pain has gone and at length it will be reduced to the extremities, the hands or the feet, and will no longer hurt but there will be swelling in the extremity without pain. In this way you will remove the pain of gout and this is the most certain result and has been tested many times. If you want to reduce the swelling in the hands or feet, make this comforting bath of wine, roses, camomile, rosemary and bran boiled so it is reduced 1/3. Wash with it and let it dry by itself and soon the swelling will be resolved. By continuing with this ointment in this illness and protecting yourself from everything adverse and living sparely and being restrained and temperate with your wife, you will be cured, with the aid of God, as was Monsignore Albergotto, citizen and rector of the city of Rezzo, who gives good testimony that he is alive and healthy.

To mitigate the pain of gout in several ways.

Take some millet flour and make a dough with very good, very warm white wine and put it on a cloth in the form of a plaster and put it very warm on the gouty pain. Renew it as it becomes cold. Continue this and soon it will mitigate the pains. When they move, follow them with the plaster. It has been tested.

Another to mitigate the pain of gout rapidly. Take enough leaves of henbane in the month of May to fill a large pot with its cover luted so that nothing can escape. Make a pit in the earth before your door or where enough people pass and let it stand until the August harvest of Saint Maria at the half moon. Then lift the pot and the cover and remove the leaves which are converted into liquid and press them very well on the press and extract as much as you can. Save it in an ampule, well stoppered. With this liquid rub only the inflamed area of the gout which gives you pain and where there is redness and in no other place for a good result. This blessed liquor mitigates and lifts all the pains of the gouts. Wherever they are on the body, it will cure them all. It has been tested.

Another to mitigate the pain of the gouts. Take the oldest olive oil that you have, powdered incense, egg white and male pork lard in equal amounts and beat everything together and mix it on a slow fire. Make it into a plaster and put it warm on the sore gouty places. It will soon lift the pain. Do this with rewarming time after time so the pain goes away and you will be cured.

Against the pain of the gouts, warm and cold.

Take 2 lb. of the herb swallow wort, or celandine, early in the morning when it has the dew on it, during the half moon, and cut it minutely and take 1 lb. of clarified honey and put them together in a vessel and seal it well. Put it under warm horse manure for 20 to 30 days. Then remove it and pour out carefully the little water that is in the vessel and save it. It is good for fistulas and cankers. Wet some cloths and put them on the sores, but first wash the sores and then put on some brutto bon ointment, that is the dark diachylon , and you will cure this sickness. Then take the remainder that is in the vessel and distill it in a glass flask on the bain marie with a slow fire and extract from it limpid and clear water and save this. Wet fine linen cloths in this water and put them on the painful place with the warm or cold gout. By continuing to put on wet cloths the pain is greatly reduced. After this you can give the patient his meal which should be moderate. He should be conservative in everything and not disorderly and, with the aid of God, the pain from gout will soon cease. In this way you will cure gout or fistula or canker.

Another to mitigate the pain of gout. Take 1 handful each of elder leaves and leaves of the herb that is called 'Christ's eye' and boil them in good white wine. Put this warm on the painful place of gout in the form of a poultice and keep it as warm as you can, changing it several times and soon you will lift the pain of gout wherever it is.

Another. It is said that if you take 3 sprouts of elder and 3 of nettle and the same amount of horsemint and cut them up and make a pancake and give it to drink or eat with very good white wine, you will help greatly in the pain of gout.

Another. If you drink a glass of betony juice, in that day you will not feel gouty pain.

The best beverage against the pain of gout, especially when the gout is hot in nature.

Take 3 pounds of each of the following: water distilled from fumitory, from endive and from bugloss, and 3 ounces of hepatic aloe. Put the waters in a clean pot with its cover well-sealed so that nothing escapes and boil it very slowly until it is reduced in half or more. Then strain it through a fine sieve and save it for your needs. When the pain of gout comes, give 3 ounces of it to drink warm early in the morning in the form of a syrup. Give it each morning as long as the pain of gout lasts and for those other pains that will come later. Do this little by little and, with the aid of God, soon one will be freed so no more pains will come and one will not be crippled.

Against the pain of gout, the best and perfect laxative.

Take ½ dram of good quality turbith, 1 dram each of colchicum and ginger, 3 drams of dwarf elder and 1 lb. of sugar. Dissolve everything together and reduce it to the form of a confection or electuary. If you want it to be more laxative, add 1 dram of purging bindweed. Take about 3 drams of this in the evening or in the morning. It will make you go easily and without discomfort. Also you know from this that it will help you greatly.

Note. To lift the pain of gout take the green wood of willow and put it in the fire and collect with care the water or foam that comes out of the head of the stick. Rub the sore place, that is where it is red, and soon it will lift the pain of gout. This has been tested.

Against the pain of the gouts, perfect electuary and a wonderful secret.

Take 1 ounce each of cold diadraganti and juice of quince, 2 drams each of autumn crocus and ginger, ½ ounce each of excellent turbith, excellent manna and rose honey and 1 ½ drams of agaric. Then take 1 lb. of fine sugar and mix everything together and these things should be finely pulverized. Make it into an electuary or into a solid form. The dose is ½ ounce depending on the effect. By continuing it for a time, it will greatly relieve the pain of gout.

Take the pills written below at least 4 times a year, that is in spring, summer, autumn and winter. Take more or fewer according to how you feel and when you take them be careful for that day because they debilitate the body greatly. These are the pills, viz. Take 2 scruples of asafoetida, 1 ½ scruples of troches of agaric, 2 ½ scruples of pills of autumn crocus and 2 drams of excellent rhubarb. Mix these with water of ground pine and make a dough from which form the pills as you wish and save them in a wooden container and you will find them wonderful for you.

Another, the best confection for gout. Tke ½ dram each of mace, galingale and cardamon, 1 1/2 drams each of cinnamon and nutmeg, 2 ½ drams of ginger and 1 lb. each of white sugar and sea grapes and enough rose water. Incorporate everything together following the rules to make other aromatic confections. Give this confection to the patient when he goes to sleep and early in the morning. Reposing for a while in the evening is very helpful in alleviating gout pains. Also these help him to retain some appetite. He should put off sleeping with his wife and he will find himself much improved. Sometimes he will feel the pains but they will always be diminishing.

Against the pain of gout, excellent pills and a most true secret from a judge.

