Take 2 ounces of Venetian turpentine, 1 ounce of ground ordinary salt, 2 lb. each of ground tartaric acid from the wine cask and the oldest olive oil that you can find and 1 handful of dill. Boil all these things together until it is reduced one third. Then strain it through a fine strainer and put into this strained mixture 1 ounce each of strained goose fat and bear fat, 1 ½ ounces of marrow from deer and 2 ounces of clean wax. Incorporate all the above things warm and make an unguent and seal it carefully. Rub the painful gouty place, heating the palm of the hand and rubbing the sore place lightly with this ointment because the oil penetrates more easily through the natural warmth of the hand and it will help greatly in serious pain so you will not feel it.

Another, a very perfect ointment to lift the pain of gout. Take a neutered, live bitch that is very fat. Kill it and remove the skin, head, feet and the insides. Boil it in a cauldron of water, large enough so that water does not have to be added, until it is well cooked and falls apart. Remove the cauldron from the fire and let it cool. Then collect all the fat that is on top as something precious and save it. Take 2 ounces of this fat and 1 ounce of fine rose water and reboil the fat and the water together on a slow fire until it forms an unguent. With this ointment rub the place that has gouty pain 3 or 4 times a day and rub with the warm palm of the hand. This makes it penetrate more easily and it helps the patient and the pain is soon gone.

Again, the ointment above may be made with a dead fox and boiled in a large cauldron with enough water. Do not remove anything, neither skin, nor head, nor feet, nor the insides. All these things are good and helpful, as is said above. Collect all the fat that forms on the water when it is cold and save it. It keeps for a long time and is firm and very penetrating. Use it as above or put it together with the other which works better to remove the pain and even has some other virtues for other suffering and pain. This has been tested many times.

Most excellent oil against the pain of gout and for any requirement.

