In the springtime take at least 6 large live ramarri , that is green lizards, and put them in a large caraffe with a large neck. Fill it with the oldest olive oil you can find and drown them alive. Then put it before the fire and boil it until these lizards are all broken apart. Remove the caraffe from the fire and put in the things written below, that is, 2 drams each of Roman pellitory, musk, mastic and rock rose gum and they should be finely ground. Distill it in a glass still on a good fire. Preserve the liquor that comes out as a precious thing. Rub the place of painful gout with this warm liquor or oil. Soon, with the aid of God, it will lift the pain and will delay greatly its return and you will be able to cure it in a short time. Also this oil has many other properties which are described in the section on ringworm and in the section on cracks in the skin and on the hair.

Electuary for the pain of gout and arthritis.

Take 5 drams of scammony, 4 drams of fine turbith, 2 drams of autumn crocus, 3 drams each of rhubarb, cinnamon, cloves, frankincense and spikenard and 1 scruple each of anise, rock salt and lesser centaury. Mix the above with 1 lb of honey and make the electuary. It ought to be taken in the morning in the amount of 1 nut in a glass of tepid water. During the morning the patient must watch himself carefully while this electuary does its work.

Say this prayer, viz. “O greatest wisdom, O eternal light, O creator of heaven and earth, O you who saved human nature and were placed on the cross for our sins to save us when you said on the cross, ' Hely, hely, lama zabatani. Hoc est corpus meus.' Agios, agios, agios, ischiros, atanathos, adonay. So you, Lord, were freed from the wound in your side with the most holy cross which you bore to Mount Calvary and so you, Lord, were wrapped in white cloth and this wound did not bleed nor become inflamed nor infected. So this illness will not cause pain if it please God and his Son. May the suffering of Christ remove this pain. May the suffering of Christ free him. In the name of the Father, + Son, + and Holy Spirit, + Amen.” Say this over the pain at your chosen time and then take a bit of a man's shirt and place it in the form of a cross on his pain and at once he will be freed.

Against the pain of the gouts, a tested cure with water of guaiac.

Take some guaiac wood, carefully turned into shavings, and soak it in 33 lb. of cistern water in a clean pot with a cover that has a hole in the middle and let it soak for 24 hours. Then boil it very slowly until it reduces 1/3 and the cover should be well sealed so that no gases can escape except through the hole in the cover. When it is well cooked, remove it from the fire and let it cool. Strain it finely and save this in a glass flask. Then put other water over the boiled wood and reboil it as above to reduce 1/3 and strain it and save it in a vitreous vessel. Take as much of the first water as the second and mix them and drink these waters at all meals and before meals and do not drink any wine until you are cured of gout or other infirmity. Be careful about other harmful things as is said above and, with the aid of God, soon you will be cured. This is a modern and rare secret among men.

