Another laxative of buckthorn, the Angelic electuary. Take 1 ½ lb. of the juice of buckthorn passed through muslin and boil it slowly until it is reduced 1/3. Then put therein 1 lb. of cleaned, strained honey with 4 ounces of fine sugar made into powder and incorporate these well on a slow fire with stirring. Let it boil until it takes on some body and it will be made unless you want to do the test described above. Save this for your needs and take a spoonful in the evening when you go to sleep, more or less according to how you see the need. That greatly helps in podagra and in other warm illnesses. It has been tested.

A ring against gouty sciatica to wear continually on a finger.

Make a ring of gold or silver and wear it continually on a finger if you have gouty sciatica or if you are very weak and, with the aid of God, soon you will be cured. Engrave these letters on the outside, viz. '+ Christus abiel, + Christus abiel, + Christus abiel + ' and nothing else. On the inside of the ring, engrave these in the way that you see, viz. '+ Dio +Birem +Sabuc + Hexeber +' and nothing else. Say over it a mass to Saint Cosmas and Saint Damian and the first time you put the ring on, say 5 Pater Noster with 5 Ave Maria in honor and glory of the 5 wounds of Jesus Christ. Wear it with faith and devotion and you will no more feel pain from gouty sciatica. This is true and most true. Also I do not know the appropriateness of this for women. I do not remember at this time that I have heard enough said, so it has been kept to this.

Another to lift the pain of gout. Take 3 pills of autumn crocus the first time 4 days before the full moon and for 4 days before the 5th day of the waning moon. On these days take one spoonful or a little more of powder of gorse and mix it with broth or warm wine. Use powder of sweet balm on your food. You should do this continually and, with the aid of God, the pain will soon go away. It has been tested.

A poultice against gouty sciatica of the hip, even if it is old.

Take 6 ounces of fine quality pine tar, 1 ounce of galbanum and ½ ounce of mastic. First melt the gums. Then put in the finely powdered mastic and compound your poultice and spread it warm on chamois or leather and spread it thinly. First, before you put on the plaster, take a cloth of red or rose-colored wool and warm it well and rub it very well on the thigh with sciatica while lying down. Then put on the plaster. Continue this for 10 mornings and it then stay on. Do the same for the knee, rubbing with warm red cloth and putting on another plaster. Let it stay for 10 days and every morning lift it and do the rubbing as above. Then do so again on the foot with the rubbing and with the plaster for 10 days. At the end of these three 10-day periods, remove the 2 lower plasters and leave only the one on the sciatica. Do not ever remove that from its place until, with the aid of God, you feel yourself cured. Take care of the way you live.

Prayer to cure gouty sciatica wherever it may be, and rapidly.

