Say, and have the patient say, 3 Pater Noster and 3 Ave Maria. Then say, 'In the name of God and the Holy Trinity and the always glorious Virgin Mary, free me of this sickness early in the morning and lead me early to the clear water. There we will go and 3 good deeds will be recorded. God save me from 3 evils, that is from running water, from burning fire and from powerful lords. I swear to God omnipotent and to the Virgin Mary, give me strength for one month and to be patient, not to eat garlic, nor lentils, nor head nor tail of animal, in the name of the Father, + Son + and Holy Spirit, + Amen.' Say this for 3 times each morning with the Pater Noster and continue for 3 mornings and each time that you deliver it, spit in running water if you can. Stay a whole month without eating legumes of any kind, nor sour fruit of any kind, nor head nor tail of fish. Eat bread of plain wheat without any other blend and drink wine and not water and stay away from women. Do this in the morning as early as one can. If the person is completely crippled so he is not able to move from bed, take a bowl of clear water and make him look at it and deliver the prayer and he spits in it and this is thrown away. The first night he will feel very troubled and this is a good sign of rapid cure. At the end of 6 to 8 days, little by little he will attain a cure even if the illness is old and wherever it is on the body, so with the aid of God, soon you will cure. If, by chance, he breaks the vow, the serious illness will return to him anew and he must return to the beginning of the prayer. Five persons have been cured in this time without doing anything else of whom 3 were elderly and were not able to move from bed and the other 2 were carried to a little running water when the prayer was delivered, spitting in the water 3 times in the morning before the sun came up and these were cured without taking any other medicine. You who want to say the prayer, get up in the morning at dawn and make the patient get up if you can. If not, do as is said above and of this be sure that all may be healed of the gouty sciatica which is caused by humidity and may be from coldness. Wherever it be in the body, all will be healed through God's grace by observing completely the things said above and with no other treatments.

Against gouty sciatica, lavage and ointment that will cure it rapidly.

