Take 1 ounce each of sage, tamarind, betony, burdock, valerian, burnet saxifrage, rue, holy thistle, wormwood, wild wormwood, mint, sweet balm, catmint, mountain mint, pennyroyal, artemisia, celery, creeping thyme, hyssop, box tree, fresh anise and laurel berries, all of good quality and collected at the right time. Boil all in 3 flasks of good and potent red wine until it reduces 1/3. Then strain the wine through linen cloth and press the herbs well and save them apart as you still have to use them. Put in the collation the fats written here, viz., 2 ounces each of donkey fat, fox fat, badger fat, old chicken fat and goose fat and 1 lb. of ordinary oil, the oldest you can possibly find, and 1 ounce each of rock rose gum, bdellium and myrrh. All these should be coarsely cut. Put everything together in the boiled liquid and put it again on the fire and boil it for one half hour or more. Then remove it from the fire and let it cool and collect all that fat on the top and save this in a glass bottle as something valuable. Put the herbs that you have boiled again into the wine and let them stay there as long as you wish. When you want to use this lavage with the herbs in it, warm it well and wash the thigh or the leg on the inflamed and painful place of the sciatica, wherever it is. Wash the place well so it becomes very warm. Dry it well with warm cloths. Then anoint it with the warm oil that you have saved. Wet stupes in this lavage, very warm, and put them on the ointment where it is painful. Cover them with warm cloths and wrap well. Do this 2 or 3 times a day, because the more times you do it, the sooner you will be cured. Continue this for at least 15 days. If you want to put some of these warm herbs on the sore place in the form of a poultice, it will help you when you are rewarming the stupes time after time. If you do this repeatedly, you will achieve a cure sooner for this lavage above all is comforting, restorative and drying. By keeping to the rules described above and by means of divine aid and with faith you will soon be cured. Watch what you eat. Do not eat things bad for you such as pork. One man was cured through God's grace who for 5 years had gone on 2 crutches with sciatica in both legs and he kept to the rules and was cured and freed expeditiously and walks joyously.

Another, a beverage for sciatica. Take 1 ounce each of flowers of tamarind, of borage, of bugloss and of St. John's wort, picked at the right time and dried in the shade, 2 ounces of the herb St. John's wort, 2 drams each of mastic and turbith and 2 ½ drams of cinnamon. Boil all these things in 5 flasks of good white wine and boil it very slowly until it reduces 1/3. Then strain it carefully and let it stay in the sun for 4 days. In the evening when you go to sleep and in the morning before you get up, drink 3 ounces, warm. This will make you feel very youthful. When you strain it, be sure it is clear and save it in a glass flask, well sealed.

Every morning say this prayer, viz. “ '+ Today you will be with me in paradise. My Lord why have you forsaken me? Mother behold your son.' Then you said, 'Disciples here is your mother. I thirst. I commend my spirit, Lord, into your hands. It is finished.' In the name of the Father, + Son + and Holy Spirit +. Amen. He who was freed from all iniquities to him, he is the one who heals all your infirmities. Amen.”

Against the cold gouts.

Take 1 handful of rue and grind it well. Then mix with a decoction of cumin so it is well cooked and make it in the form of a plaster and, as warm as you can stand, put it on the painful area of gout and soon it will lift the pain and greatly dry this cold humor. Also this other plaster is very good to remove the pain of cold gout, viz. Take 1 handful each of sage, rue and dill and boil them well in good white or red wine until it reduces 1/3 or in half. Then grind it well and put this warm on the gouty pain in the form of a poultice and it soon dries it and lifts the pain.

*Perfect and tested oil against all cold infirmities. Viz.

Take 1 handful each of 4 kinds of mints, that is, lesser mint, greater mint, horsemint and pennyroyal, picked during the half moon in the month of May. Cut them finely and put them in the oldest olive oil you can find. Let them stand for 4 to 6 days in the sun. Then boil them on the water bath. Then put them back in the sun for 15 days or more and it will be made. Save this oil for all your needs. It is powerful for all the painful cold that comes in the joints. Rub with this oil, well-warmed, and put over it warm unwashed wool and soon it will lift the pain, by rubbing in the morning and evening. The older it is the better. This oil has been tested many times and it has cleared up all the above infirmities from coldness.

*The Angelic electuary or buckthorn electuary, very laxative. Viz.

Take very mature fruit of buckthorn at the end of September, early in the morning, in whatever amount you want. Put them in a sack and with force press them and extract the substance in the press. Weigh out 3 pounds or more and put it on the fire in a clean vessel without odor and make it boil very slowly with skimming until it reduces one third so that it is nearly cooked. Then put in 1 ½ pounds or more of good cleaned honey, the amount at your discretion, or put in red sugar which makes it more laxative, this amount or more according to whether you want it sweet or not. Reboil it one more time until everything is cooked to its usual thickness, that is, it stays firm on the fingernail or on a card. Then it will be cooked and well made. Remove it from the fire and put it in your bottle for 3 or 4 days in the sun and it will be done and save it for your needs. The dose is 1 ½ spoonfuls, more or less according to the person. Take it after lunch or dinner and at the end of an hour or more, it will make you go 2 or 3 or even 4 or 5 times, according to the hardened material in the body. This electuary always works better the older it is. The Carthusians of Veduta use this electuary often.

*For the pain of frozen teeth.

Take rootlets of nettle, grind them a little and then boil them with red wine in a clean little pot until it reduces in half. Then take some of this wine in the mouth as warm as you can bear and soon the pain will be cured.

A beverage and enema very useful against gouty sciatica.

