With the following ointment, very warm, rub the sciatica with very warm unwashed wool. The ointment is made with 1 handful of rue. Bruise it a little between two stones and put it in a little pot and put therein olive oil, the oldest that you can find, and a few earthworms, well washed with white wine. Put everything together and boil it slowly so that it does not burn. Then strain it very carefully until all the substance is out and with this ointment, very warm, rub the inflamed place with very warm unwashed wool and then bandage well. Continue all the above things until you feel yourself much better. With the aid of God soon you will be cured if you continue to live carefully. A chaplain of the Queen of Naples used this remedy in Ferrara and through God's grace he was cured and freed quickly and walked as if he had never had the illness of sciatica.

Very useful enema against gouty sciatica.

Take 1 handful each of honeysuckle, cat mint and roots of bryony. Then take a flask of good light red wine and put in these herbs to infuse for 1 whole day. Put the little pot on the fire and let it stay on the fire until it wants to boil but do not let it boil. Remove it from the fire and cover it very well until it has cooled. Do this 3 or 4 times. Then put it back on the fire and boil it until it reduces in half and it will be made. Take a bowl of this boiled liquid and 4 ounces of ordinary oil and compound the enema. Give one every 2 days. This lasts for 15 days. Before you use this medication, purge the patient first and then make this ointment and also the enema and you will cure the illness quickly.

Beverage for cold sciatica and for every other developing malady.

Take 1 handful each of the inner bark of the ash tree, burnet saxifrage, maiden hair fern, spleenwort, rusty fern, liverwort and chicory roots and 2 ounces of raisins. Mix them and make a decoction. Put everything in a clean pot and put therein 4 jugs of good white wine and put on its cover and seal around with dough so nothing escapes except through the center opening. Then put it in a warm oven or in the center of the fireplace until it boils gently and reduces in half or by 2/3. Strain it and press the herbs well so the substance comes out and it will be made. Save it in a glass flask. In the morning take 4 ½ ounces in the form of a warm syrup. Continue to take it more times until you feel much better. Take care of yourself and, with the aid of God, soon you will be cured.

For coldness in the joints, that is for cold gout.

Take the leaves, stem and fruit of wild cucumber. Grind them and extract the juice with force and put it on the fire until you have skimmed the foam off but do not let it boil. Then strain it through the strainer. Take again as much rose oil and boil them together until this reduces 1/3 or ¼ and it will be made. Save it for your needs, that is when a person may have been in some humid place and have taken up humidity in his joints so he is not able to move, take some of the juice and make it very warm and rub the painful place very well and put on a stupe of hemp or unwashed wool which is better. It should be very warm and well wrapped with a warm cloth and keep it warm. Do this 2 times a day. Do not eat humid things and in 10 or 15 days you will be cured because the ointment draws out all the humidity that was converted into water and soon you will be freed.

Another. The root of wild cucumber described above is useful to give a horse to eat that has pains and soon that will cure it. It is tested.

Laxative of quinces against the cold gout and hip pains and it comforts the stomach.

