Take whatever number of quinces that you think fit and peel and clean them, rubbing them gently back and forth well. Boil them in good white wine until they are very well cooked and broken apart. Then take 3 lb. of this paste and 2 lb. of cleaned honey and reboil them together, stirring continuously because it tends to stick. Remove it from the fire and when it is half cooled, put therein the things written below, all made into very fine powder. Viz. Take 2 drams each of cloves, red ginger, mastic, long pepper, nutmeg and cinnamon, ½ ounce of autumn crocus, 1 ½ drams of turbith and 3 drams of purging bindweed. Incorporate these well together while the paste is somewhat warm and it will make a good and perfect electuary. In the morning at dawn take the amount of one nut which will be about half an ounce and go to sleep at least for one hour. If you will continue this you will see a wonderful effect.

Unguent that is powerful for sciatica, cold gout, retracted nerves, pain of the womb, kidney pain, quartan fever and pain from the spleen.

Take 2 lb. of olive oil, the oldest you can find because the older it is the better it is, 1 handful each of rosemary, sage, rue, wormwood, tips of the sprouts of jebuli , that is wild elder, and put them in the oil and put in 3 ounces of malvasia or good white wine and boil everything together with a slow fire until all the wine is gone. You can test this by putting a drop of the oil on the grill of the fire and if it sizzles, the wine is not all consumed and let it boil a little more until it is all used up. This wine is used because the herbs would be burnt well before they would be cooked to extract their power into the oil. Then remove it from the fire, strain and press the herbs in the press and extract all the substance well. Put in a bowlful of earthworms that have been well washed 3 or 4 times with white wine. Put these in a little pot with good white wine and boil it very, very slowly on a little fire so that they do not burn and when it is well cooked, the wine will be dried up. Then put in 3 ounces of ground active sulfur and let it barely boil. Strain it through loose linen cloth with force so all will come through. Put this together with the oil and put everything again on the fire and incorporate it well. Then add in the things written below, all made into very fine powder. Viz.

