One-half ounce each of cloves, incense and mastic, 1 dram of saffron, 1 ounce of laurel berries and 3 ounces of clean wax. Cut up the wax and put it in last with everything well incorporated. Stir until it is cold so that the powder does not go all in one place and it will be the best, well-made and perfect unguent. Save it in a bottle for your needs for all of the above infirmities.

When you wish to use the above unguent for sciatica, cold gout, nerves, eschars, sickness in pregnancy, kidney pain and all these other pains, use it cold and not hot and you will see a wonderful result. Use the ointment repeatedly.

Another. When you want to treat the spleen, make it very warm and put on warm cloths. Do this only in the evening. Be careful to avoid all adverse things and you will be cured.

Another. When you want to treat pains, make the unguent very warm and rub the body with very warm cloths. Do this several times and soon the pains will cease.

Another. When you want to treat quartan fever, make the unguent very warm and rub only the edge of the kidney. Cover yourself well in bed and do this 3 or 4 times before the fever comes and you will be cured quickly.

Eat some rosemary often and eat good meals and you will see an excellent result in all of the above infirmities when the unguent is made as is described above. It has been tested in all the above infirmities and it has cured almost all.

Oil of sage flowers for swelling from cold gout of the elbow, hand and knee.

Take the oldest olive oil that you can find. Then take a bottle or curet and make it more than half full or full of flowers of sage gathered in the full moon. Fill it with the oil and let it stay in the sun for 8 days, well covered. Then boil it on a bain marie for a half hour and return it to the sun for a month or more and it will be made. With this oil, very warm, rub all the cold pains caused by cold humors and especially in cold gout. Put it on all the joints and put on a very warm stupe of hemp or unwashed wool and on that another cloth and bind it well. Do this 2 times a day and soon the pain from bad coldness will cease. Many persons have tested this remedy and have been cured, by God's grace, through continuing it.

To cure arthritic pains or gouty arthritis.

Take the herb called a rteticha which has leaves as long as a large palm and straight like the onion but slimmer or like chives and which grows wild in the mountains. When you want to cure gouty arthritis, go before the infirm one and ask if he wants to be cured of the gout. If he says yes, tell him to say 5 Pater Noster with 5 Ave Maria in reverence to the 5 wounds of Jesus Christ. You should collect 9 leaves of the herb arteticha and show them to the sick one. Begin to medicate the first time on a Friday during the waning moon. The sequence is to say the prayer written below 9 times for 9 mornings and the sick one will say one Pater Noster with the Ave Maria each time that you will say the prayer. Then after you have said it, cut the herb up finely and take a fresh egg and incorporate them together and cook them in a frying pan in the form of a pancake without oil and without any other things. Make 9 morsels of it and give it to the sick one to eat and with each morsel he should say a Pater Noster with the Ave Maria. On the second morning do the same with 8 leaves and read the prayer 8 times and he will say 8 Pater Noster with 8 Ave Maria. Do this on the third morning with 7 leaves and say the prayer 7 times and he will say 7 Pater Noster with 7 Ave Maria.

Do this on the fourth morning with 6 leaves and he will say 6 Pater Noster with 6 Ave Maria and make 6 morsels. Do this on the fifth morning with 5 leaves and he will say 5 Pater Noster with 5 Ave Maria and make 5 morsels. Do this on the sixth morning with 4 leaves and he will say 4 Pater Noster with 4 Ave Maria and make 4 morsels. Do this on the seventh morning with 3 leaves and he will say 3 Pater Noster with 3 Ave Maria and make 3 morsels. Do this on the eighth morning with 2 leaves and he will say 2 Pater Noster with 2 Ave Maria and make 2 morsels. Do this on the ninth morning with one leaf and he will say one Pater Noster with one Ave Maria and make one morsel. Do not omit this if you want to cure the arthritis soon with the herb arteticha . When you read this prayer, have a blessed candle lit and with this make the sign of the holy cross over the sick one and also over the herb. This is the holy prayer, viz. “In the name of the Father, + Son, + and Holy Spirit, + Amen. Three angels were on Mount Cedron on Friday and they met Arthritis and they said, 'Where are you going?' He responded, 'I am going to the servant of God (name).' The angels said, 'We conjure you, Arthritis, that you should not stay in the servant of God (name), by his son, Jesus Christ + and by the Holy + Spirit + and by the most blessed Virgin Mary + and by the blessed Archangel Michael + and by the blessed John the Baptist and by the evangelists + and by the blessed Apostle Peter + and by the blessed martyr Blaise + and by all the saints of God which are in heaven and on earth, that you do not have power over the servant of God (name).' Your faith has made you well. Christ conquers +. Christ rules +. Christ orders +. Christ protect you from all ills. + In the name of the Father + , Son +, and Holy Spirit +, Amen.” This prayer is ended and do not forget it and through the grace of God, soon you will be cured. It is tested.

