Another. Say this other prayer, reading it 3 mornings in a row and 3 times each morning with a blessed candle lighted. First say 3 masses over the prayer, the first of Saint Leonard, then of Saint Christopher and Saint Blaise. At the beginning of the third morning say 3 Pater Noster with 3 Ave Maria. Carry it always with you. When you read it say, and have the patient say, the Pater Noster and Ave Maria and read it with devotion, viz. “In the name of the Father, + Son, + and Holy Spirit, + Amen. Three angels were walking on Mount Sinai and they met the illness of gouty sciatica or arthritis and they said to him, 'Where are you going, Arthritic Pain, where are you going?' 'I am going to the house of your servant (name) to torment the nerves and dry up the marrow of his bones and waste the flesh of (name).' 'We invoke the Father + and the Son + and the Holy Spirit + and, by the living and true God who created all creatures, by the 4 Evangelists, Luke, Mark, Matthew and John, by the holy Virgin Mary, mother of God, by Saint Peter bound and imprisoned, by the prophet Jonah who was in the belly of the whale for 3 days, by the holy Moses who escaped from the hands of the pharaoh and crossed the dry Red Sea, this sickness of arthritis is afraid and with this holy prayer this servant (name) is cured so this sciatica or arthritis does not have power or authority over him to torment the nerves, nor waste the marrow of his bones, nor dry up his flesh, nor his limbs and by the terrible day of judgment which one fears. So from this hour forward arthritis has no mastery over my servant (name), so it does not torment his bones, nor dry his flesh, nor hurt his marrow, by virtue of the the holy, holy, holy, holy Immortal.' In the name of the Father +, Son + and Holy Spirit +, and of his always glorious Virgin Mary, mother of the Son of God, and in reverence to Monsignor Saint Leonard, to Saint Christopher and to Saint Blaise and to all the saints of God who are crowned in heaven and adored in earth and canonized in Rome and by this devoted and holy prayer, free your servant (name) from this evil arthritic infirmity and from all other illnesses, if it is the pleasure of the Father, + Son + and Holy Spirit +, Amen.” ....

“Saint Leonard on Mount Sinai met and said to that evil beast, 'Where are you going?' It answered, 'We are going to the house of your servant (name) to torment his limbs and afflict his family.' Saint Leonard said, 'Leave siatica, do not go there, do not stay there.' So I have made a vow to God and to M Saint Leonard to do all in my power for one month not to eat legumes, nor lentils, nor head of buffalo, nor of barzo because you will leave, cursed sciatica, and go to disperse at the bottom of the sea, if it is the pleasure of God and of the Virgin Mary and of Saint Leonard and Saint Christopher and Saint Blaise. In the name of the Father, + Son + and Holy Spirit + Amen.”

