Another unguent that heals well burns from fire or water. Take 2 ounces of quicklime, washed in 9 or 10 waters, 1 ounce of Alexandrian zinc, ½ ounce of clean wax and 6 ounces of rose oil. Make the unguent as usual on a slow fire and when you have removed it from the fire, continue stirring and put in 2 fresh egg whites. Stir until it is cold and it will be made. Medicate with this 2 times a day and you will cure rapidly. This heals burns well.

Another, very delicate unguent for burns. Take 2 handfuls of climbing ivy, cut it finely and boil it in white wine until it is well cooked and pass it through a very fine sieve. Then take the expressed juice and mix it with 6 ounces of rose or violet oil and 3 ounces of new wax. Incorporate everything together and when it is almost cold put in 2 fresh egg whites, well beaten, and it will be made. To use it rub the burned place with it and do it several times and you will soon cure.

Another unguent for burns from fire or water. Take 2 ounces of powdered yellow litharge and boil it with 1 lb. of strong white wine until all the wine is gone. Then go back and make very fine powder. Then take 3 ounces each of butter and oil of roses and wash them in 4 or 5 waters. Take 1 ounce of burnt white lead and the yolk of a fresh egg and 1 ounce of fine sugar and mix everything together with 2 ounces of rose water and it will be made. Wet some linen cloths in the liquor and put them on the burn and soon you will lift the pain and you will cure the burn rapidly.

Another unguent for burns. Take ½ bowl of quicklime and slake it with ordinary oil and when it is dry, that is when it has imbibed the oil, mix it with rose or violet oil in the form of an unguent and spread it on the burn or put it on cloths. In 3 or 4 days you will be cured and it will remove the pain and not leave any sign. This has been tested.

Another unguent for burns from water. Take an onion cooked in the fire and grind it while warm and, as warm as can be borne, put it on the burn and very soon the pain will stop.

Another that is similar and quicker. As soon as the person is burned, wet the burn with ink or put that on some cloth. But if you are able to put the injured part into ink immediately you will lift the pain and greatly cool the burn and it will be cured quickly. Many persons have been tested with this and in has been found perfect and good.

Likewise, as soon as you are burned, touch the spot with your tongue and with your warm breath on it, say over and over, repeating this word, ' Sabaot ', and make the sign of the cross on the spot with your mouth. 'In the name of the Father,+ Son + and Holy Spirit. Amen.' Soon you will be cured.

Likewise you can say this 3 times over a burn from fire or water as well as from any other thing. 'When Jesus was born, he was first anointed and then washed as much as was needed, so much this burn will need from God in its cure. In the name of the Father, + Son + and Holy Spirit +, Amen.' Take a glass of fresh water and say over it this holy prayer with a Pater Noster and Ave Maria each time and with 3 signs of the cross, + + + . Then pour all of the water on the sore place but do not rub it. Do this 3 times in a row and for 3 mornings but do not do anything else. It will heal by itself by saying this first over the sore place 3 times every morning and then put on the water. Be confident that very quickly you will be cured. It has been tested.

*Another to cure a burn in 8 days from any fire. Do not put on anything else but little cloths wet in the juice from cabbage leaves including the center part. Do it several times and the burn will be cured quickly. This has been tested.

Unguent for burns of all kinds. It cures them marvelously and leaves no scar.

Take 1 or 2 or more lb. of old lard from a male pig and grind it finely and boil it in a flask of strong white vinegar in a little cauldron for 2 hours. Then remove it from the fire and let it cool. Gather all the fat from the top and save it as something dear for your needs, from which God save you. Press it well with the hands so the vinegar comes out. When someone is hurt by fire, wherever it is, rub it very well with the grease and put over the grease some finely-cut fur of a rabbit like a spice. Do this in the evening and in the morning, rubbing always first. Do not remove the old grease, but always add one grease on the other and always, when you have put on the grease, put over it some of this fur cut very finely and it will make a large crust. Do this for 4 or 5 days and not more. At the end of 8 to 10 days you will see the scab lift up from its place and it will all be cured. And if by chance or accident the scab is removed before it is well matured, return to rubbing a little longer and no mark will be seen and very soon it will be cured. You will feel almost no pain as soon as it is put on the first time. This is a most rare secret and has been well tested many times. Be well.

Another. Other unguents against burns made in diverse ways according to the regions where they have been tested. Take 1 ½ lb. of ordinary oil and 1 lb. of great and good white wine and put them in a pot to boil. Put in 1 handful each of house leek and bark of elder, cut finely, and let it boil until the wine is all consumed. Then strain it in a pointed little sac, pressing it well so you extract all the substance of the herbs. Then return it to the fire and put in 1 ½ ounces of powdered white lead and 1 ounce of white wax. As the wax melts, remove it from the fire and it will be made. Save it for your needs for it is always good to rub on burns.

Another. Take white vinegar and put in a little ground salt and wet some fine linen cloths and put them on and at once this will lift the pain. Distilled vinegar has the property of stopping pain when some cloths are wet in it. Plain pork lard also has this property. As soon as the person is burned, scrape a little lard with a knife and immediately put it on the burn, I say immediately. It will stop the pain of every kind of burn. These have been tested.

Another for burns. Take 3 ounces of juice of rue, ½ ounce each of pine resin, powdered incense and honey, 1 ½ ounces each of rose oil, turpentine and juice of burnet saxifrage and 1 ounce of white wax. First put the oil, the turpentine and the resin on a slow fire and when they are liquified, strain it. Then return it to the fire and put therein all the other things and let it boil a while and remove it from the fire when it is done and stir until it is cold. Use it at your pleasure. It will bring you honor.

Another for burns. Take 4 ounces each of strong white vinegar and juice made from elder bark and the white of a fresh egg. Incorporate these together and wet therein some cloths and put them on the injury and the pain is removed. When you want to make a burn heal well, treat with the unguent in the recipe above.

