Another for burns. Take 1 lb. of rose oil, 1 ½ ounces of clean wax, 2 ounces of red lead and 4 ounces of yellow litharge. Put everything on a moderate fire to cook, stirring continuously until it is somewhat firm. Then spread it on chamois carefully and it will heal the burn well and you will cure the burn quickly.

Another, a quick remedy for burns from fire and water. Take house leek and extract the juice and compound it with a fresh egg white. Wet some cloths in it and put them on the burn. Do this several times and soon the pain will lift. This is a delicate remedy and tested.

*Another. Say over a burn, 'Blessed be the hour that God was born, was first anointed and was baptized in the River Jordan. As Jesus Christ did not suffer, so this burning does not cause pain to this creature who is burned. Amen. In the name of the Father, + Son + and Holy Spirit +. Amen.'

Tested unguent for burns from oil or fire or iron or water or from any other thing.

Take 2 ounces of rose oil and 1 ounce each of juice of nightshade, of plantain and of sedum and 2 fresh egg whites and incorporate everything together very well with a rod. Rub the burn with this in the morning and evening and your pain will quickly be relieved and you will be cured. If you are quick before the blister rises, when it is cured you will see no edge or mark.

If the burn makes a large sore, add in quicklime slaked with ordinary oil as is said above with powdered incense and white wax, the amounts at your discretion. Compound an unguent on a little fire and treat the sore with this and it will cause no more pains and will be cured quickly.

If you have these remedies always in your house, and in this way near to God, you will never be a poor man.

Pills of turpentine, powerful in sciatica, in gout and in every bruise or internal distress.

Take 1 ounce of good white Venetian turpentine and wash it 6 to 8 times with borage water or sweet balm water, or with good white wine, otherwise with other waters appropriate to this infirmity. When you have washed it well, incorporate 3 ounces of fine, pulverized sugar and 1 ounce of good cinnamon in fine powder and put in as much as it can take so the paste does not stick to the hands and it will be made, paste of turpentine. Save it in a delicate little jar in a cool place and it will last a year or more. When you want to take the pills, in the evening detach some from the mass and roll them in the fashion you prefer, large or small, and take one large or 3 to 5 small, at your preference. You can wet them in water or in wine and then roll them in powdered sugar. In this way the pill can easily be taken without difficulty. You can take it in the morning or at all hours but it is better in the evening because it works better. Take it one evening yes, the next no, and you will see a wonderful result. These are its approved virtues, viz.

If a man falls from a height and feels bruised or injured inside, beyond needing an enema and phlebotomy, use these pills as described and soon he will be cured.

If a man has pain from gout or other pain in the joints, either old or new, use some of the pills and for a long time he will not feel the pain.

If a man has sciatica or is subject to some humidity in the joints, use some of the pills and soon, with the aid of God, he will be restored to health.

If a man has any weakness or distress in the stomach, use some of the pills at least 2 times a week and soon the distress will pass away.

If a woman will use some of the pills in all her feminine difficulties, this will help her greatly and will remove some of the fumes that rise to the head and soon she will be freed. Even if she has lost her reason through some impediment, it will return quickly.

