Those written here below are the spices that are mixed in. Add 5 cherry plums and 1 scruple each of cinnamon, long pepper, zedoary, mace, senna, nutmeg, cloves, agaric, saffron, jujube, galingale, aloe wood, white turbith gum, fine manna and oak fungus. Grind everything together and mix carefully.

These pills were composed by Monsignor Marsillio from Saint Sophia in Padua and are very laxative and have the great virtue that they can be taken at any time by anyone for any kind of condition. It makes no difference if they are taken before or after meals. Here are some of their virtues and properties, viz.:

They wonderfully sharpen the intellect, act against every illness and, if they find excess humor in the body, they remove it without effort.

Another. They comfort weakened limbs and strengthen them.

Another. They slow down graying of the hair. They heal whatever may be broken by a salt or viscous humor.

Another. They prepare the stomach and comfort the viscera. They preserve the sight and reduce cataracts and keep away the lumps that arise in the throat.

Another. They remove every vapor that has risen to the head from which a headache follows that obscures the intellect. They kill worms and improve tired, weak and sluggish nerves wonderfully.

Another. They stop decay in the teeth and stop belching and other annoyances.

Another. They strengthen the heart and protect against the plague. They rejuvenate.

Another. They give great aid in gouty arthritis and joint pain.

Another. They make you sleep well and they remove the bad choler. They make the breath good.

Another. They are good for anyone where there is bad air and bad waters and they have many other great virtues.

I have tested this when I was worn out from gouty sciatica. I took water of  wood and it did not help me much. Since I began to use the above pills and I have felt no more pain. If at any time I was hurting from a humid period, I took it and I was restored to health immediately, and for every other trouble I found myself well prepared.

Tested pills against dizziness.

Take 2 scruples of pills of assaiaret with agaric and 1 scruple of gold. With syrup of French lavender make 5 pills which should be taken at bedtime. One who suffers from dizziness should take these two times a month and, with God's grace, soon he will be cured.

To cure dizziness. Take 1 handful each of agrimony and house leek and cut them finely and grind them well. Cook them in rose oil until they make an unguent. In the evening put it over the eyes before you go to sleep. This cures the sickness of dizziness that comes in the head. It has been tested.

Pills against many infirmities and especially against plague.

