Carry with you in your mouth a little piece of zedoary root and then you will go safely among those sick with plague and have no fear. With the aid of God you will not catch the sickness. You will be even more secure if you will carry some good odorous things with you and continually smell them.

Confection to lift up the heart and dispel melancholy.

Take 6 drams of dry roses, ½ dram of sedge, 3 drams each of cloves, mastic, lavender and plowman's spikenard, 2 drams each of cinnamon and crocus and 1 dram of lesser cardamon. Make very fine powder of everything and incorporate them. Put 1 lb. of fine sugar on the fire and melt it in rose water into which 3 grains each of musk and ambergris have been chopped. Make a confection as usual and keep this to use 2 or 3 times a week, especially early in the morning and you will see great improvement in your health. It has been tested.

Very perfect nitric acid according to Aristotle, with its properties.

Take 2 lb. of ground Roman vitriol, 1 lb. of very fine saltpeter, 6 ounces of chopped up cinnabar and 1 lb. of fine strong ash. Incorporate these 4 things together well and distill them in a glass retort luted well around and on a little, slow fire. When you see the cap of the retort becoming yellow, the first water has been made and be quick to remove the receptacle below and put there another collecting flask and seal it well around so the fumes do not leak out. Continue with a slow fire with dry wood and take the second water from its position below and keep it well sealed so it will not give off all its spirit. Do not ever let the fire get too hot and continue until the cap is no longer very yellow and then all will be made. Save this.

These are its approved powers, viz.

First, take a little of the water and put therein some cleaned quicksilver. Then put some of this water on a developing malignancy for 3 or 4 days and soon one will be freed from such infirmity.

Another. If you will put some fine silver in this water and then put some of this water onto cleaned mercury, it will soon become firm and hard and it cannot be distinguished from the progenitor. This is a beautiful thing to see.

Another. If you wish to adorn any work of iron, first paint your iron with liquid varnish and let it dry by the fire in the usual way. Then mark the design on it with your little iron tips that you have prepared. Then put this water on the design, putting wax from a candle around so that the water does not drip onto any other place. Let it stand for one hour, more or less, according to how you see the work well incised or not. Then wash it with fresh water and this water will not bite in any more. Take some filings of iron with a little cork or soft wood and rub away the varnish and the iron will be bright and clean with the design that you have made.

Another. If you put some copper beaten thin into this water it will dissolve. If you should put some of this water on a person it will distroy all the flesh that it touches and it will be difficult to heal.

Another. If you put into this water all kinds of metals they will be dissolved in a short time. If by chance you want to break a piece of iron, wet some cloths and put them on the place where you want it to break and in 3 or 4 or more times it can be broken in that place but do not wet other places.

Another. If you put some lead in this water and bathe with it where you have some hair, the hair will go away miraculously and quickly and will not return again.

Another. If you want to cure warts or bad flesh, break open the wart with the tip of a needle so there is a little pocket that brings out blood. Put thereon a little of this water 3 or 4 times and the wart will go away.

Another. If you wish to remove fistulas or any abcesses, wet some cloths in this water and put them on and soon you will be cured.

Another. If you wish to cut or break the flesh in any place, that is to cauterize, make a little plaster and cut an opening in the middle the size that you want it on the flesh and put the plaster so it stays on the flesh. Then bathe several times with this water where you have cut the plaster and the flesh will be broken open in exactly that place.

Another. If you wish to remove letters that are on parchment, wet it lightly with the water with a brush. Then with your little knife, shave carefully and lightly and it will go away so nothing will be seen.

Another. If you wish to make a medium blue color, put calcined tin in this water and as it settles to the bottom, remove the water that is on top and at the bottom it will be azure.

Another. If you want to make a bright vermillion color, put burnt copper in this water and it will make a beautiful red.

Another. If you mix the first water with the second and put in red coral and it will become soft as wax. Then you can do what you wish with the coral while it is warm and where it was wet with this.

Another. If you put some ordinary salt in this water and then put in a grossone of silver, you will be able to remove a scab without a scar.

Another. If you will put fine silver into this water and touch the flesh or any other place with this, at once it will become dark, and especially hair that is white.

If all these things are true, they are the most beautiful secrets. I have not tested all of them yet.

Water of Queen Isabella, powerful for all the body and to make it healthy.

Take 3 parts of brandy distilled four times and 2 parts of whole flowers of rosemary and put them in a well-sealed flask and keep it for several days. Then distill it in the flask and you will have clear water. Drink some of it early in the morning and it will renew life. That is certain.

Warming oil to straighten out a limb bent or retracted by cold.

