Take 4 lb. of the oldest olive oil you can find and 4 ounces of yellow sulfur packaged in a reed and boil them until the sulfur is well dissolved. Then put in 4 ounces of Venetian turpentine and boil it until it appears to you that the oil has become somewhat reddish. Add these powders, that is 1 ounce each of eyebright, mastic and incense. Reboil it very slowly until all is well incorporated, stirring continuously with your spatula. When you see that it has become somewhat stiff, remove it from the fire and it is done. Save it for your needs and when you wish to treat with it, make it warm. It will bring you wonderful honor.

Olio laterino , called oil of the philosophers, and some of its virtues.

Take some pieces of brick, that is square tiles or flat roof tiles or cap tiles that are well baked and old. Put them in the fire and make them red hot in a charcoal fire with a little bellows so they do not take up the smoke. When they are red hot, push them into olive oil that is the oldest you can find in a basin of clay that you have prepared. Do this 3 or 4 times. Then let them dry and grind them and make very fine powder. Put the powder in a glass retort and seal it very well and let the seal dry. Then put it in the alchemist's furnace fitted with a cover and a receptacle with the fitting tight so it does not let out gas from any side. Then start the fire, very slowly at the beginning. Increase the fire little by little and notice that 3 kinds of oil will come out. The first will be clear, the second red and the third dark. You should know that almost all the virtue is in the first oil, the virtues of which in part are written below, as you see.

The virtues of this oil of the philosophers.

First it is useful for all distress from cold or phlegm. Also it is valuable in all problems of the ears and kills worms in children when the wrists are bathed with it. Also it is useful in paralysis by drinking some of it and bathing the limbs of the patient. Also it is useful in cold sciatica by rubbing with it very warm. Also it is powerful for the spleen when prepared gum ammoniac is added. Then rubbing repeatedly with this oil very warm in a short time takes out distress and clears up the spleen quickly. Also it is useful to resolve all hard abcesses. Also it is effective in a seizure, placing some in the mouth or in the nose. Also it helps the memory when the fontanel of the head is rubbed with it. Also it is powerful to draw out a dead baby by putting this oil with wet cloths in the vagina and also on the private parts. It kills the worms inside. And also it has many other virtues that I do not write here through not having more knowledge, and this is enough.

Prepared oil of yellow sulfur.

Take some pieces of tiles or of flat tiles, paving tiles or curved tiles that have not touched water and make small pieces of them like chestnuts or beans. Bake them hot so they become very red. Then quench them in ordinary oil at least 2 times. Then grind them and make very fine powder. Put it in a retort in a large still and use it in the usual way and distill oil with a slow fire. This oil according to the philosophers is called plain olio laterino . Put this oil in a pan of iron or a frying pan and if the oil is up to one pound, add another pound of powered yellow sulfur and stir well together with a rod of wood until it becomes like honey and put this liquor on a marble slab. Cut it up as finely as the size of beans. Then put it back in the retort and let it putrefy for 3 days. Distill it with the retort of the still on ashes and first keep the fire low. Begin increasing the flames little by little until all has distilled and it will be made. Then distill it on a hot bath and in this way you will have oil of sulfur and at the bottom of the pot it will be ruby red. Distill it in the retort with a very hot fire and you will have oil of sulfur like a ruby in all its perfection.

Another way to prepare oil of sulfur. Take 12 lb. of good quality salt and grind it finely and put it in a stone vessel and put thereon some warm water so it is all dissolved. Then pour it through felt until it becomes clear. Then thicken it on a slow fire and use enough fire so it precipitates. Then form it into a rod and grind it anew and make it into very fine powder. Again put it in a stone vessel and dissolve it in water and collect this in a glass vessel. Take powdered yellow sulfur and soak it 7 times in this water, mixing and drying it in the sun 7 times. Put this in a retort and distill it with a slow fire into a large receptacle. The first distillation will come out as clear water and does not have much power. Then the red oil will come out and you should increase the fire until all of this comes out and it will be made. But first put your distillation to age for 6 days and you will have prepared oil of sulfur.

Oil of yellow sulfur and some of its virtues.

 Take yellow sulfur and break it up coarsely. Then put it in a little vessel, as you see in the drawing, and if you have too much sulfur you will need to do this several times because this does not make more than one ounce per pound of sulfur. Put the vessel in the center of a glass bowl, as you see. Put on its glass cap, luted below the thickness of a thumb, or a large funnel that receives all the fumes so that nothing is lost. Then start the fire under the sulfur with a candle. The cap should not touch the bowl by the distance of half a finger and the vessel should not touch the bottom of the bowl so the oil that falls out does not touch it. If it does, it will dry up and you will have nothing. Set it on a little piece of glass and in this way you will be able to collect it. You can lift up the cap when you want to kindle the fire and then lower it and hang it on a nail or tie it with twine. Heat it very slowly and the oil will fall down and you can collect it, little by little. Save it in a large glass bottle. Do it well so that nothing escapes as gas and in this way you will have made oil of sulfur, true, perfect, pure and also simple to make and it meets every comparison. Using it will bring you honor. I put here below for you some of its tested virtues. Viz.

First. For one who has epilepsy, give a little of this oil to drink with a decoction of peony and betony. It will help greatly in this illness.

Another. For one who has lost his appetite, give it to drink with water of wormwood and it will help him greatly.

Another. It cures all fevers, given to drink with wine in which has been boiled wormwood and rosemary. Do this at the onset of the paroxysm.

Another. It cures all sores, old and new, by putting some of the oil in wine in which has been boiled powder of querzola , that is ground pine, and powdered burnet saxifrage, greater comfrey root, St. John's wort, leaves of myrtle, centaury and powdered acorns. Wet cloths in the boiled liquid with the oil and put them on old or new sores and soon they will be cured.

Another. It kills worms in young children and in any other person, given as a drink with a decoction of agrimony and rye. It causes urination when it is given to drink with wine in which the oil has been cooked.

Another. It is powerful against plague when it is given to drink with wine in which radish has been cooked with a little theriac and mithridatum. Rub the place that aches with the warm oil and it will be cured quickly.

Another. It cures melancholy when given to drink with wine in which has been cooked rosemary, celandine, sweet flag, basil and saffron. Wash the hands, feet and head 3 times with wine in which rosemary has been cooked and this makes the person cheer up rapidly.

Another. It is powerful against the flux of blood. When given to drink with wine in which some bark of rosemary has been cooked it will help greatly.

Another. It is powerful in asthma when given to drink with wine where agrimony has been cooked.

Another. It gladdens the heart when it is drunk in a glass of 2 fingers of malvasia on an empty stomach, given each time with 6 drops of this oil. It preserves the natural humidity and augments and fortifies it.

