Another. It is powerful in the illness of the stone and in kidney problems, with water of radish and of caltrop. Dropsy may be cured better when it is given with water of orris root and honey.

Also this oil has many more virtues that are not named here. But note well that this oil is very valuable in the above-mentioned infirmities and it cures all kinds of fevers, quartan, continuous and quotidian and even all sores, ulcers and fistulas. It removes scrofulas and one can cut off swellings with this oil without a knife and also every bad growth. Note that when you wish to give this oil for quartan fever, dip a feather from a hen in it and rinse it in a glass of water of bugloss and give that to the sick person to drink before the paroxysm. But with the sores, they need to be bathed with a feather dipped in the oil. Then put on an unguent and it cures every sore rapidly. When you wish to rub for pain of the head, rub where it hurts with the tip of the finger and rub it as much as the patient can stand. Then give a dose of this oil on an empty stomach with good malvasia wine or with a water appropriate for headache.

This is enough to have said, imparting some of the virtues of oil of sulfur which have been tested as true by worthy physicians. These are secrets that are not among the common people, so the profit is not removed for one who knows these secrets. However, if they are kept only in one little place, they are not of any value to you.

*Another. To make teeth clean and white use one part of this with one part of water of mastic or of myrtle.

Precious oil that heals every wound in 24 hours.

Take a full bowl of flowers of St. John's wort when they are well matured, 1 lb. of the oldest olive oil that you can find, 1 lb. of strained male pork lard, 4 ounces of clear turpentine and 1 dram of ground saffron. Put everything together in a large kettle and cover it. Then boil it on a water bath for 1 miserere. Then leave it for 4 days in the sun and if you want to make it good and complete, find a place to put it in horse manure, covered at least 2 feet deep where it is safe, and let it stay there for at least a year without touching it. When you remove it you will find a firm oil in the form of a balsam which you will hold dear and near to you and it will work to bring you honor. When you remove it, strain it and press the dregs in a little sac under the press and extract all that substance because that contains the greatest virtue. When you want to use it, make it warm for cuts or wounds or all other cold maladies of the person. Do not use other unguents. You will cure these maladies rapidly.

Oil of St. John's wort with valuable additives and its virtues.

Take 1 handful each of the leaves, flowers and seeds of St. John's wort in the month of July or August because at this time they are well matured. Then take 6 lb. of the best good wine and put it in a clean pot with the herbs and let it stand for 3 days in the sun, well covered. Put everything in a large glass vessel and add 3 lb. of Venetian turpentine, 6 lb. of the oldest olive oil that you can find and 2 drams of ground saffron. Seal the vessel well with lute of wisdom until all the opening is coated so nothing can leak out. Then let it dry and when it is well dried, put the vessel in the middle of warm ashes for 2 hours. Remove it and boil it on the water bath for 2 ½ hours. First put the vessel on and then put in the water that comes up near to the neck as it boils. Let it cool in this. Then make a pit in the earth in the full sun and put the vessel in there and cover it carefully and let it stay for 3 or 4 days continuously. Remove it and let it stay in the sun for 8 days in the open air. Then strain it and render the herbs in the press and put everything together and throw away the dregs. Let the oil stand for a little while and remove the oil that is in the middle because this is the good, true and perfect oil on which you can rely. Save it in a vessel or bottle. That from the bottom is of little worth. Hold this oil to your heart as a great treasure because below we will speak in part of its virtues, not just in men but in women, not just in wounds but in many other infirmities, bruises and blows from outside as well as within. Here are its virtues. Viz.

These are the virtues of the above-described oil of St. John's wort. First I tell you that it acts as a true balsam and shares the virtues. It is good in all infirmities that come from coldness or humidity. It is most perfect against pestilence when it is rubbed warm around the sick places and also on the edge of the kidneys.

If you give 1 dram of it to drink, before 6 hours have passed it will help greatly in this pestilence and soon you will cure it.

