Another. It is powerful for rubbing malignant fistulas. When it is warm it will cure rapidly all sores, old and new, and fractures or damaged bones and also irritated nerves.

Another. It is powerful when rubbed warm on all cold swellings. It cures gouty siatica by rubbing it very warm with a stupe or very warm cloths.

Another. It is used to rub on the face. It removes all moles and dark spots that are found on the face and also on the body. When a pregnant woman drinks 2 drams a week it will protect the baby in her body from every blemish and also if it is dead in the belly it will be expelled.

Another. It is very powerful against quartan fever when a little of it is drunk when the fever begins and also by rubbing the kidneys downward. It also removes clotted blood that is on the body.

It also has many other virtues that I do not write here because you will find all these by using it if you keep to the rules above. It is also powerful in the sickness of matrons, that is for stomach pain. When it is used, rub well in the evening with it very warm. By drinking a little warm, it will free you rapidly of stomach pain. A few days ago I made a test of this and at the end of one and a half hours everything was cured. Use it and you will see.

Oil of egg yolks with many of its virtues. It is made in this way.

Take whatever number of hens' eggs you have that are good and not spoiled and cook them in water so they become very hard and firm. Then remove all the yolk and take nearly one pound. Put them in a frying pan by themselves and brown them slowly. Then put them in your retort that is well sealed and put on its cap and its receptacle underneath. Make the fire very slow and the precious oil will come out. Many alchemists after cooking the eggs put the yolks in a pot or in a flask and put it underground in the full sun or in manure, which is better, for 15 days so all will be converted into yellow oil that looks like liquid gold. Here below we will tell some of its virtues. Viz.

It has special power to remove the pearls that develop in the eye so they are like new-born in less than a year. It is powerful to remove freckles from the face. Used repeatedly it kills lice.

Another. It is powerful to stop the spasms of the twitching eye when incorporated with oil of turpentine.

Another. It is powerful in burns from fire. It helps greatly.

Another. It is powerful in piles when they are rubbed warm several times.

Another. It is powerful in cicatrices, when they are freshly joined.

These written down are some of its virtues. By using it you will find others close to these. This oil is called in medicine, Olium vittellorum .

Oil of tartar to whiten the skin.

Take 6 lb. of tartar, that is the lees of white wine, and wash it with good white wine. Then dry it in the shade. Then put it in a clean pot, sealed, and put it in the pottery kiln until it is well calcined. Then put it in a pointed little linen sack and put it in a humid place. If you wish to use it to clear up the face, put in at least 8 to 10 fresh egg whites. Preserve this oil and you will have the means to make your skin white.

Oil of tartar, that is tasso, with some of its virtues.

Take 5 or 6 lb. of tartar, that is lees from white or red wine, more or less according to what you have. Clean it and put it to heat, that is to calcine, in a kiln for pottery. When it is cold, remove it. Then put it in a large glass flask and also in a little sack of cloth pointed at the bottom. Put it in a humid place, fenced or underground, so animals or other bad things or air or wind cannot get to it and it will soon become wet and will yield the oil at the end of 20 to 30 days, sooner or later according to whether it is settled in a suitable place to receive humidity easily. Tie the sack in the air so it does not touch the glass on any side. Strain it into a glass flask and little by little empty it into a bottle. It will be clear and transparent and will look like clear water. Save this as something dear. When it will not give out more oil, take the substance that remains in the sack and reboil it in a a pot of water, that is with 3 lb. of water to 1 lb. of this material, and boil until it reduces 1/3. Wash all the body with this water and it will remove all itching and all dark or red marks or moles and it will make all your flesh white as it used to be. If you will wash the face and chest with it it will make the skin lustrous and clear and stretch out every wrinkle and it will make you appear younger than you are. If you add a little dried rock alum in this water and wash out a spot made by wine or ink, wherever and whatever it is it will soon be removed and will be seen no more.

The virtues of the above-described oil of tartar. First, it is useful for removing all marks or the edges of wounds when it is rubbed on warm several times and it even removes all black marks on the body.

Another. To remove spots made by ink on any cloth, wet the spots and let it stay a little until the oil has penetrated well. Then wash it with fresh water, rubbing it a little, and if the spot does not go away at first, do it two times and it will disappear, be the spot made from ink, wine or grease. If the spot is on cloth or fabric of silk, apply this oil 2 or 3 times but do not rub it and wash with clear water and it will go away.

Another. This oil is powerful to brighten the painted figure, that is by bathing with a fine, clean sponge, otherwise with a soft brush. Put it on the drawing or other painting in the same way as a liquid varnish. You should know that this helps brighten all the colors and all the painting seems to be renewed as soon as it is dry. This has been tested many times.

Another. It is powerful to aid all nerves which have been torn or retracted by any infirmity. When it is used very warm it soon helps and cures. I have tested this on my own hand twice, only the ointment was very cold and I am more than half cured.

The alchemists use this oil often but they redistill it and make it into a solid. Then they make whitening and other things. This oil has many other virtues that I have not written but by using it you will discover them. Keep it always near you because the older it is, the more power it gains. When you want to calcine it, do nothing but leave it intact because it calcines better and when it is calcined, it is dark and can be made into fine powder. When you do it this way and keep to the above rules, it will work well for you. Do these tests and you will agree.

Oil of Roman vitriol, true and perfect, with its virtues.

