Take not less than 12 lb. of good, clean Roman vitriol. If you take less you may not recover the expense because it yields not more than one ounce of oil per pound, or about that. Grind it finely because it works better. Then put it in a clean large pot and fill it and push it in as well as you can but do not break the pot. Put on its cover and lute the cover on the pot so nothing can escape and make it so the seal sticks out about the thickness of a finger. Let it dry well in the sun. Then make an oven of bricks walled up with clay in a corner of the fireplace under the flue of the chimney and do it in the way that you see here. Fit your pot in the middle and close up around it with bricks that are vented only by one little hole behind. Make a fire of dry wood underneath and burn it very slowly for one whole day, that is 24 hours and let it cool. Then open the oven and draw out your pot. Be careful, before you break the pot in order to remove the vitriol, to have first prepared a large bronze mortar and a sieve covered as it is for spices and a large curved retort as you see. As before, it must be well sealed with lute of wisdom and the neck of the retort hangs out of the oven through an opening. First break the pot which otherwise you would not be able to empty because all has been made into a hard mass of red that looks like powdered brick. Be quick to grind it and sieve it and put it in the retort. This is done so that it takes up little air because it is affected greatly by air so that it does not render the oil sufficiently and if the powder was coarsely sifted it renders less oil. You are warned about all these things. When you have put all this powder in the retort, place it in the oven as you see, so it lies along the length of the oven. The bricks that are used underneath are unbaked and are one finger apart, one from the other, and all the way around it is walled well with bricks and clay and it has a narrow little opening behind and a small opening in the front. At once put the largest receptacle you can find in respect to the great outburst of vapors that comes suddenly at the end. If it is small it would be broken from this sudden outburst but it works the way I tell you. Make the fire in the middle of the oven and be advised that the fire controls everything. Make the fire very slow and with dry wood. If it is not dry, do not use it and, if possible, it should not be one stick each time but at least 2 if you can put them there. Always stir it up one at a time, continually if you see them touching. Never leave the fire and never let it stop burning and keep it always steady. Be warned about this because it is very important. Never leave the fire to burn by itself and at night one must always watch because it must not lack care for 6 days to make it perfect and good. With all this care it will never show you a sign except on the fifth day the spirits will begin to come forth and to come out into the receptacle with great force......

because having closed the opening of the receptacle securely with luted cloth all around, the gases cannot escape. Also it is better if the receptacle is large. Here is an ingenious secret so that the receptacle may not be broken by the great heat when the gases are entering. Devise a way that cold water is always dropping on the receptacle and in this way it or any other receptacle will never crack. Be advised that if you do this dropping of water, in 4 or 5 days you will have oil more quickly. If you do not do this dropping of water, you must wait to the fifth and sixth day and then all the gases will come at once. It is a frightening thing to see such dark smoke fill up all the receptacle which then condenses below and soon is reduced to oil. This oil is blackish in color or dark tan and take this, with the aid of God and with speed and dexterity, and extract it from the receptacle and put it in a large glass bottle and secure it because this oil is a very fiery and active spirit. Keep it covered with great care with new or white wax and with 2 or 3 layers of parchment doubled and well tied, because in truth all the spirit may be lost quickly in fumes and be gone.

At the end I will tell you some of its virtues. But first I want to advise you to make this other oil of ruby-colored vitriol which is red in color, resembling the element of fire. It is made in this way as you will learn. Viz.

First take some Roman vitriol in the form that you have made before and when you have ground it, put it in a glass vessel and close it well and put it in warm horse manure in the full sun for 15 to 20 days. Then remove it and do as you have done at first, having prepared the retort sealed with lute. Grind the mass and sieve it finely and put it in the retort. So the air does not hurt it, do this quickly and follow the rules above. Then place it in the oven as you see the retort placed above and with as large a receptacle as can be found. Seal the joint so it does not leak.

Make the fire at the beginning very lively and draw off the first water from the top. Be advised that when you see the gases coming, quickly change the receptacle and put under another to receive these gases which are converted into reddish oil. Wrap the joint of the flask so it does not leak, using very good plaster, because in this consists all the importance of your work. Do not let the gases escape, neither by love nor force. Make the fire more temperate and gentle, always continuing it steady with dry wood and you will see these gases coming as was done at first but not as much because they are issuing from water at the top. At first it will be a little less and it will be very reddish red and of the greatest potency, more than all other oils. It is used in medicine and outside of medicine. The philosophers in the works of alchemy call it the 'Green Lion' and it congeals mercury and has the most potent virtues, almost incredible, and in all its actions it is wonderfully potent.

Now we will speak of the virtues of the first oil of copper sulfate, first described above. I say that this oil has so much potency that it consumes everything and it is not burned.

Another. If you put iron, copper, tin, lead or wood in this oil in a short time you will see it consumed and converted to vapor, except olive wood and ivory. These two are not consumed and they are made resistant.

Another. If you put a drop on a cape or clothing that was in 4 or 6 or even in 10 folds, it consumes all in this way. At first you do not see any sign but if you examine the garment, all the holes are seen where the fabric was consumed completely.

Another. If you put a single drop in the middle of your hand it will pass quickly from one side to the other without pain and you will feel nothing.

Another. If you put 2 drops in a glass of sweet wine, it will remove the sweetness at once and give it a certain burnt flavor very appetizing to taste. It gives you a very good stomach and will make you look younger and with very good breath. It clears the eyesight and preserves the memory. It removes corns rapidly. This has been tested.

