Another. It is useful for asthmatics when it is given with water of orris root and honey. It is effective in scrofulas when given to drink with a little water of scrophularia.

Another. It is powerful to cure canker when given and mixed with water of the herb cancharina and this oil. If it is given to drink by mouth, it should be tempered until it has a sour taste and then it can be drunk. It cures the plague when 1 dram is given to drink with 3 ounces of water of burdock.

Another virtue of this oil. It heals all sores, old and new in this way. Boil in wine all these things, that is, oak leaves, burnet saxifrage, root of greater centaury and of crushed greater comfrey. Sieve this and put in some of this oil and mix these carefully together. Take some fine white linen cloths and wet them in this composition and put them on the sores in the evening and morning and the wounds and sores will be gone quickly.

This oil is used for drinking in medicine and in surgery. It is called the 'Green Lion.' When you want to make it, use all your diligence in preparing it. Grind the Roman vitriol finely and place it in the retort and make the fire very temperate and low. Learn to collect the distillate quickly so that you do not lose the gases which are easily exhaled. Learn to save it when you change receptacles and to be quick and keep it well covered. You have in it a cure that will bring you honor in all the above infirmities. It has been tested.

Note that the first oil contains part of the elements of water and of fire, but the second which is reddish contains nothing of water because you have removed that first and have left all of the element of fire. The major virtue for all things is not in the first oil and you should be aware of this in treating with it. In hardening the red oil does not have equal and does its work quickly and effectively. This has been shown.

Some say that if the fire is strengthened under the first retort, then the element of fire may come out in the first oil that is extracted, but the fire would need to be lively. I have not tested this and I leave it to you to research more about that. I have done all that I have said to you and have given the rules. We were 3 companions and we made this oil together.

Oil of talc prepared for a white complexion.

Take 6 lb. of talc and 6 ounces each of saltpeter and tartar from white wine made into fine powder. Put everything in a non-vitreous pot, making layer on layer of talc and the powder. Then put on the cover and tie it with iron wire and seal it on very well above and below. When it is dry put it to calcine in the furnace for bricks or the oven for calcining. When it is cold, remove it and grind the talc in a bronze mortar and make fine powder. Then put it on a marble slab and put it in a humid place where animals and wild beasts are not able to go and let it stand until it is converted to water. Then distill this water in a glass retort on a slow fire and the oil will come out. This will make you esteemed because its virtues are not all obvious but a great treasure is found in this oil. Men are rare who have such a secret. In all the beauties of the body and the hardening to which you put it, it will bring you honor.

Oil of talc, made mysteriously.

Take not less than 12 lb. of talc stone because no more oil than 1 ounce per pound is extracted. Flake it all finely. I think you know what talc is and if you do not know, I tell you that it is a white stone, shining and lustrous, that appears like silver and is hard and cannot be ground but it cleaves into very fine flakes. Fill a non-vitrious pot with these flakes and tie it with iron wire and seal well around and let it dry in the sun. Then place it in a furnace for bricks or a calcining oven in a secure place where the fire is steady and leave it until the oven is stopped. Then draw it out and you will find your talc is calcined. Grind it in a bronze mortar and powder it finely on marble and let sit on this rock or put it in a large bowl or on a glass plate and put it in a safe humid place where neither animals, nor dust, nor dirt, nor wind can harm it. It should stay hanging over a bowl to collect the oil and it should stay there at least 20 days. Once it begins to yield oil, it will yield all in about one month. If it may not be willing to render the oil, put it in a pointed sack of cloth and assemble it with a glass vessel to collect what comes out. Lower it near the water in a well or at least an arm's length down the well and see that no one removes water there in order not to interfere with the action. Alternatively, make a large hole in the earth in a place where neither air, nor sun, nor moon beats and place this sack so it does not touch any side and cover the opening with some board and let it stay for the space of 20 to 30 days until the oil is given up to you. Know that as it begins to give out the humidity it does not stop until nothing more can come out. With the first that comes out on the marble, you need to do nothing more and you will have oil of talc which will be white and lustrous and appear like silver. Save this to use for your needs because whoever has this oil will not be a poor person. This oil treats all the great lords. The illustrious Duchess of Savoy used no other thing on her body, only this oil, and she was held to have the most beautiful flesh on earth.

I do not tell you about solidifying alone because it solidifies and joins at the same time. Here below we will put some of its approved virtues, viz. First, if you put a drop in purified mercury, at once it hardens and precipitates all at once and it stays solid to fire, to any test and to the hammer.

Another. It is powerful to take away all the marks that are on the body, even if the mark is dark or of any color and all marks and scars from wounds.

Another. It is powerful to rejuvenate everyone. It takes away all the wrinkles and makes the flesh very white and soft.

Another. It has power to purify the eyes and maintain vision and it aids and augments the memory.

Another. It is useful for the stomach. Rubbing with this keeps the stomach free from choler and renders the breath good and keeps the teeth always very white.

In addition, it is powerful in giving luster to pearls and coral and to other precious stones. It is also powerful for many other things that you will learn as you work with it. This is enough for now. Do not make less than 12 pounds so that you may satisfy the expenditure that you have made and with the honest amount of profit that is customary.

Oil of talc made according to the alchemists.

Take some talc as described above, clean and not less than 6 lb. Flake it into fine particles and let it stay in olive oil for one whole day. Then touch it to the fire and dry it completely. Grind it in a bronze mortar. Then macerate it on porphyry and make very fine powder. Put it in a glass flask, uncovered, and boil it for 2 hours on a bain marie and then cover it. Distill it in a glass retort, beginning with a slow fire. Augment the fire to lively and it will distill oil. Uusually one puts in some well-washed and clean little stones. In this way you will have oil of talc extracted by distillation. If by chance it does not want to come out, put it in a humid place for some days until it will come out. In this way you will have an oil which does not lack the virtues described above. Use it with great care and hold it dear because I have sold an ampule of a quarter of an ounce of it for one scudo of gold and this was for an unknown illness. If you have enough of it, you will never be poor a man.

Synthetic oil of vitriol that solidifies.

Take 12 lb. of Roman vitriol and put it in a large pot and cover it well so that gas does not escape and put it in a tub of water so that the water does not enter the pot and with the cover well sealed around so the vitriol does not escape. Boil the tub of water with the pot in it and boil until all the water is reduced in the boiling tub. Then let the pot cool before you touch it. Remove the vitriol from the pot and grind it finely and sift it with a covered sieve so that the air does not affect it and the power is not lost. Be quick to put it in a glass retort, well sealed with strong lute of wisdom and it should be well heated and dried. Put it on good warm ashes and keep it thus for 2 days. Then put it in your oven fitted with its receptacle and with the joint well closed with cloth and luted and well wrapped so the fumes do not escape. Make a moderate fire for 2 days. Do make sure that drops of fresh water continually fall on the receptacle. When the first water comes, it comes with some white fumes and when you have these, you must change the receptacle quickly and seal it well. Then on continuing the fire some other spirits or fumes will soon come out which on going to the bottom are soon converted into oily liquid. You should know that this red oil and this clear water are called permanent because these are permanent things which cure every serious infirmity, as you know from above. Also the oil has in it very great power to stiffen, solidify, precipitate and fix. The true potable gold is made from this material, perfected with purification into the best gold from its ferment of gold. It is made from the water described above. It is true potable gold that cures lepra, ulcer, fistula, epilepsy and prevents an apoplectic stroke. You make it by this simple sequence and the cures are worthy and strong.

Note that on soaking the cinnabar of the philosophers in the fermented oil for 3 days and distilling it, through the power of this oil it takes, precipitates and fixes the mercury and modifies it into the best gold. This secret is rare among men.

To convert oil of tartar into a liquor.

 Take 3 or 4 lb. of tartar from white or red wine and put it in a large pot and cover it with its cover and seal it well around so that gases cannot escape and put it to calcine in a kiln or other furnace. When it is cool, remove it, grind it and triturate it on marble. Then put it in a clean and well-washed bladder and tie it well with strong twine and send it half-way down in the well so that nothing can hurt it and let it stay for at least 15 days or less and all will be converted into oily liquor. It will have properties different from the other in this respect that it does not give off gas and stays more united as a body. Its powers will be more potent. It will give identical effects and has the same virtues as the previous remedy of oil of tartar. Draw it out of the well and let it distill, bringing it forth little by little from the neck of the bladder. You will have a liquor from the oil very perfect for every use. Save it well closed. It can remove all the marks made on iron or glass and especially from silver. It has many other virtues such as are contained in the chapter above on oil of tartar.

Best and perfect oil made from virgin wax.

Take 2 lb. of good, new wax that has the odor of honey and cut it into very little pieces. Then take a good handful of little rocks as large as beans, neither more nor less, and wash it very well with pure water. When it is dried, put it with the wax and incorporate well together. Then put everything in a retort as you see in the diagram, very well sealed with lute of wisdom, made with trimmings from cloth or other appropriate things, to the thickness of a finger and let it dry well. Then place it on the little tower base with a grid of iron put in between and closed well from above, leaving there only its opening to let out smoke. Put on its receptacle well-closed with a cloth sealed around the opening so that nothing can escape from any side. Then make up the fire from charcoal or from dry wood, continuing it slowly for the space of half a day. The oil and the wax will come forth into the receptacle and in the retort will stay only the little rocks which are of no value. With your ingenuity, separate the oil from the wax in the receptacle because the oil stays below and the wax above. If you cannot extract it then break the receptacle and remove the oil first from its position and then remove the wax. Save this oil by itself in a double ampule, well-closed and it is done, oil of virgin wax in all its perfection. It has many properties and virtues, especially in fistulas. I have not seen a good miracle from it and for now I do not say more about it to you.

Note that if you redistill this oil one, 2 or 3 additional times, it is certain that it is reinforced greatly in its power and becomes perfect. This is the way in which oil of turpentine is made with these little stones well washed and with this retort, base and receptacle and with all the same rules which you must not vary and you will make oil of turpentine or oil of honey.

Excellent and healing oil of sulfur.

Take 10 lb. of urine and put therein 5 lb. of quicklime and dissolve it in the urine. Then put it on the fire until one third has disappeared. Let it cool and trickle it through felt and save it. Then take 1 lb. of finely-powdered yellow sulfur and put thereon 4 lb. of this urine and incorporate them well. Put it in the retort and place it in the oven with its cover and put the receptacle in place and make a slow fire until you draw off half of the water. Then put it again on the dregs and do this 2 times. The third time make the fire very low until you draw off all the water. Then increase the fire and the oil will come out, but change the receptacle after the water and close the opening very well around so that nothing escapes and the most beautiful yellow oil will come out that appears like streaming gold. It has many virtues, especially against retracted nerves and paralysis and it removes this illness.

