Take whatever quantity of laurel berries that you have and crush them and put them in a large boiler with enough water. Boil it very slowly until it reduces more than 2/3. Then remove it from the fire and let it cool. Collect the fat that is on top of the water and this will be the true oil of laurel berries. Save this for your needs for which it has many tested and excellent virtues as here in part you will learn. First this oil is warm in the third, some say in the fourth, but I say in the third degree. It is very powerful in removing the itch both when given alone and with other oils. When the spleen is rubbed repeatedly with this warm oil and with oil of capers, it is cured. Also with oil of lily, of camomile and saffron, this oil is powerful when it is rubbed on the body of a woman for 3 or 4 evenings to cause the period to start. If a man rubs his member and uses it, he will feel an effect out of the ordinary. It is powerful in many cold infirmities and cures marvelously.

To make oil of antimony.

Take 1 lb. of ground antimony and 2 lb. of mercuric sublimate and rub them together carefully and distill them in a retort on ashes with the mouth of the receptacle sealed. The distillate will be made in 12 hours. It will be just like ice when distilled again in the retort. If it is distilled for the third time it will give out water that is clean and pure. Take 3 ounces of dregs of this antimony and put 1 lb. of this water in the retort. When it boils a little it will distill out water the color of gold. Then increase the fire and you will have oil of antimony.

To make the true and perfect oil of antimony.

This is a rare secret of the fifth essence. God, the creator of heaven and earth, is my witness that now I wish to reveal to you such a secret that has been revealed to very few men on earth and this is one of the greatest that is on earth. This is the way, viz.

First take antimony and powder it as much as is possible and put it in very strong distilled vinegar. Put it in a vitreous vessel and close it well so that no gases can escape and let it stay thus until you see the vinegar becoming red. Put this vinegar in another vessel, also vitreous, and make sure it stays well covered. Then put more distilled vinegar again on the antimony so that it is well covered as before and let it stay until this vinegar becomes red like the first. Then put the two together and keep it covered so that its power does not escape and again put other vinegar onto the previous antimony. Continue in this way until the vinegar takes on all the red color. Keep on in this way and always cover both so that the odor does not go away. When the antimony does not dye more red, do not put on more but let the vessel with the antimony in it stay in a place that is warm all the time so the red color comes out of the base. Then take all this red vinegar that you have nursed from the base of antimony and distill it in a glass still with its cover and its receptacle with a slow fire. First will come forth the vinegar converted into water as it was at first. Then you will see a stupendous miracle that will come miraculously from this blessed antimony. Red drops will fall like blood which you will collect in a suitable glass vessel and seal it well. In this way you will have the Quintessence and know that you will have such a thing that all the treasure of the world is not its equal. I see this as such a special miracle that its sweetness compares with sugar or honey. I tell you most certainly that human intellect is not able to comprehend, nor understand, nor believe the value of the stupendous power of this thing. I tell you especially that Aristotle in his book of secrets called this his lead although he did not mention the name of antimony. Believe me that most certainly never, never did nature make such a secret as great as this. Note well that I tell you every man has been worn out and troubled through wishing to find this Quintessence of antimony. No one in this world has the littlest knowledge to know how to make it in the way I have taught you. I tell you that this secret is above all secrets. I am certain that a thousand, thousand periods of time would not be sufficient to tell half of the secrets which are in this blessed Quintessence that miraculously removes every sore and heals it. Its virtue is incomprehensible and miraculous when it is made in the above way.

Note then that when the Quintessence is made you need to put it in an amphora, well closed, and put it in manure underground for 4 days so that it stays warm and is putrefied. Remove it and it will be made and then use it. Never will you find that this is the lead of the philosophers which is said to be the fifth essence. Briefly, know that it may give color to everything except only mercury. Praise God for such a secret. I do not tell you of its virtues but I advise you that if you put in vinegar distilled from white lead and let it boil for 2 hours, the vinegar will be consumed and the white lead remains thick as oil. This is called oil of lead. This is enough for you.

Oil of antimony made in the distilling flask.

 Take antimony from the mine, not adulterated, as much as you wish and grind it into very minute powder. Put it in a pot that is well sealed and put on it enough distilled vinegar to cover it to a depth of 2 fingers and put on its cover with the receptacle below and bind well around the joint and let it stay on the warm ashes putrefying for at least 2 days in a row. Then build up the fire brightly until all this vinegar that you have put on rises out. It will come out all yellow and fiery. Do this process 3 or 4 times, that is remove the antimony from the pot and make powder again and do as you did the first time, until the vinegar that distills out has no more color but is almost white as when you put it in. Little by little you will see that the vessel becomes dry when it is covered so it does not give off fumes. Then the base of antimony is no good any more. Take the colored vinegar and put it in a large vitreous pot and let it evaporate. What stays at the bottom is the good quality and you should make this imbibe oil of tartar 3 or 4 times. Then put this material on a marble slab and put it in a humid place where it will not be disturbed by anything and let the oil come out and collect this in a receiving bottle, well closed, and so will be made the true oil of antimony.

