Another, a similar oil of antimony made by a fantastic method. Videlicet. Take a large crucible that can be closed with a narrow opening and put therein 4 lb. of antimony from the mine, finely ground. Put in enough strong vinegar so that it is covered one or 2 fingers deep and let it stay covered in a warm place to infuse for 24 hours or more, as you wish. Then put on as a cover another crucible like the first directly above in the opening, as you see, and make a round opening in the bottom and put on this crucible a retort that has a hole in the bottom that enters into that of the crucible, as you see, and seal all the crucible and the retort in the way that all is closed as one thing. Place the first crucible with the material in it into a basin made of copper or clay that has an opening at the bottom so the crucible can be placed almost in the center of the basin. Then fill the basin with fine ashes and from below or around the basin, put some bricks fixed together with clay. Make the fire there and have all the joints well closed so they do not leak. First make the fire very low, then increase it little by little until it reaches the melting point and the antimony begins to melt and continue the fire until no more oil distills. Thus is made oil of antimony perfect and valuable because it must distill at a height, as you see, and this is the best. Save it well and carefully for this oil is very beautiful and of great virtue.

To distill by downward distillation.

 Take your retort which should be well sealed and put therein that which you wish to distill downward, such as the wood of juniper or cypress or guaiac wood. You will be able to extract oil from every wood that is gummy and dry in this way by making the fire from above as you see. Put the retort in a cauldron or a pot which has an opening at the bottom so that the neck of the retort can pass through and join with the receptacle below, as you see. When the retort is in the pot with the bottom upward, so it seems to come out of the pot, and join it with the recipient below as you see. Fill the pot with finely sieved ashes. Then place the recipient below, as you see, and put in this a fine straw or pig bristle to give an exit when the vapor begins to come, for it might crack the receptacle. Wrap the joint well so it will not let out gas from any side and make the fire from above, as you see. Then make a hole in the earth and put in first the receptacle, then the pot with the retort fitted in it and make the fire as usual in the earth with dry wood or charcoal, very slowly so the retort does not crack. Seal the receptacle so that it does not break easily. As it begins to distill, remove the straw so that a little gas escapes which helps keep the receptacle from exploding. In this way you can distill everything which may be difficult to distill by other methods. Through this descending distillation, everything will come out for you.

With this method you will be able to extract oil from juniper wood and cypress wood and from lignum vitae, that is guaiac wood, to bathe the gummas of syphilis. You will also be able to make all kinds of oil that you want. This distillation is very effective.

Oil of juniper made in this way.

Take two vitreous clay pots and put one over the other and fill the upper one with finely-divided, unsoftened juniper wood. Put a grid between the pots so the wood does not fall into the lower pot. Both pots should be open so the fumes from them are able to go out. They should be placed within the fire box so the charcoal fire extends around the upper pot in the fire box. Ignite the charcoal and as soon as the wood in the upper pot is heated, oil from the upper pot will come down into the lower one. In this way you will extract all kinds of oils and they will come out for you. It has been proved.

Oil to protect against venoms, poisons and worms, proven through the holy memory of our lord, Pope Clement VII.

 Take the oldest olive oil that you can find, because it is more effective and penetrating and for each pound of oil you want 100 or more live scorpions. After you catch them, save them in a glass vessel with bran and basil leaves. They should be caught and this oil should be made under the sign of the lion, if possible, because at that time they are in the best condition. When you have caught them do not hold them for more than 5 or 6 days. Put the oil to boil in a glass vessel on the bain marie and when it boils, put in the scorpions, but first stir them up with a little stick to incite them so they will give out their venom. At once throw them in the boiling oil and boil them at least 15 hours or more in the bath. The vessel where they are boiling should be well covered and closed so that nothing escapes. Then strain the oil and press the scorpions in the press and extract all the substance that you can and put it with the oil and throw away the dregs. Then take a large flask not made of thick glass and put them in the strained oil but do not fill the flask so that it cracks from the weight. For each pound of this oil take 1 ounce each of theriac, mithridatum, clay from Lemnos and fine rhubarb, with everything in powder, and ½ ounce each of hepatic aloe, lavender and saffron and add 1 dram of troches from Tyre. If you do not have this and cannot get it, use troches from Madras. All of the above things should be made into fine powder separately, if they can be powdered. Then put them in the flask and cover it well and leave it in the sun for 40 days, day and night. Every day shake it well upside down, carefully. To have this oil of great value very secure, place it in a vessel that holds it, so if it fell and the flask was broken, the oil would not be lost. Then when it is made, put it in a safe place so when the need arises, from which God save us, you will always have it to use for you and for others. This oil is very good and effective against every kind of venom and it is powerful against poisons and envenomed sores. But be very careful that you do not touch the sore or bite with this oil because you will be in danger of causing death. But only rub around the sore as you will learn below where I tell you of some of its powers and how it should be used.

Another. The method of treating with this oil. Firstly, when one may have been poisoned, check to see if it was poison and what sort of poison was taken by mouth. At once take some of this oil and rub around the heart, the stomach, the fontanel of the throat and all the pulses of the head, feet and hands. Continue this for an entire day of 24 hours, doing this 6 times in 6 hours, and then 12 times in 12 hours and do this for one more day. Also you ought to rub one who might go to eat in a suspected place. First the pulses should be rubbed as said above and then he can go without fear.

Also one who was bitten by any poisonous animal should be rubbed as described above, especially around the bite or puncture from the animal.

Also one who is infected or had any carbuncle or swollen gland opened, at once he should be rubbed as above 6 times in 6 hours, especially around the malady or sore. Do this until the pain has gone. But first blood may be drawn as is the custom for infections.

Also for one who may have to be with infected persons. First he is rubbed as above, but it is enough to do it 24 times in 24 hours. Then he will go with certainty without any concern for danger.

Also one who may have eaten fungi or poisonous herbs or whatever thing is poisonous should be rubbed as above 6 times in 6 hours. .

Also one who suffers from sickness due to worms of any kind should be rubbed with this oil around the heart and also the wrists, the fontanell of the throat, the stomach and the nose. Do this 2 or 3 times and you will cure him soon, with the aid of God. For brevity, I do not add the many other virtues that are contained in this oil but you will learn them by using it. Another, similar oil follows.

Oil similar to that above, tested in the time of our lord Pope Paul III on 2 prisoners in the tower of Savella by Monsignor Diomede the Neapolitan who was responsible for not cutting off their heads instead. This is the way to make this oil. Viz. Take 2 lb. of the oldest olive oil that you can find and put in this oil 1 lb. of live scorpions, more or less according to what you want to make. One lb. of oil takes ½ lb. of live scorpions. Bring this oil to a boil on a bain marie in a vessel that has a long neck, at least 2 or 3 hands in length and seal it and boil it on a slow fire. Put the scorpions in a glass vessel and poke them with a little stick so their poison ejects out. Then put them in the oil and boil them very well until the scorpions are well cooked. Remove it from the fire and let it cool. Remove the scorpions and grind them in a mortar. Return them to the oil in the vessel and again on the bain marie and boil them again for an hour or more. Let it cool and strain the oil through clean muslin, pressing the solids well and extract as much as you can and put it in the oil. Then put it in a glass vessel, close it well and put it in the sun in the clear sky for 40 days in a row and it will be made. Do not alter the rules given above for making it in a month of great heat, because the heat reinforces the power in the oil and gives it the same virtues that the first has. Also when you want to use it, follow the method and rules given above, especially when the person may have been poisoned. The first thing is to rub around the heart that is the principle problem 6 times in 6 hours. Do this on the first day. On the second day do it 12 times in12 hours. In all these things the first oil is good and the second has the same value as long as you know how to use it in the way described above. Do it with every care and solicitude so it will succeed well for you.

Special oil against venoms, similar to that above,and also powerful in illness of the hip.

