Take some of the above oil and strain it through clean muslin and put it in a glass pot and heat it on the bain marie. Then put in the things listed below, that is, 1 dram each of lavender, hepatic aloe, myrrh, gentian, tormentil and white dittany, 2 drams of fine rhubarb and 4 drams of fine theriac. All these things should be pulverized very finely. Then let the pot stay, well stoppered, for 8 hours on the water bath with a very slow fire. Then draw it forth and put it in the sun in the clear air for not less than 40 days and every day mix it upside down so that the material comes to be incorporated well and the substances there are purified.

The way you use this oil against poisoning is that you want to rub this oil on the palms of the hands, the soles of the feet and along the spine. In truth, this oil is precious and unique in all of the above infirmities. This oil is also powerful in those who have pain in the hips. The way you use this remedy is to rub with the oil, very warm, where the pain is felt and do this several times. In many persons it has helped greatly and it has freed them from hip pain. This oil was much used by a most Reverend Cardinal in Rome in many serious illnesses. He used it warm and treated many worthy and learned men.

Oil of scorpions which Saint Bernard used against poisons.

Take old olive oil as described above, 2 lb. more or less, according to how much you want to make from scorpions taken in the month of August when the moon is in the sign of the scorpion. There should be at least 200 because each ounce of oil requires at least 10 to 12 scorpions. Put them in a large barber's basin and with a little stick annoy them so they eject out their venom. At once put them in a vessel in which the oil is boiling. Cover it well and boil it on a bain marie for at least 24 hours so that the scorpions have fallen apart. Then when it is cold, strain it through muslin, first wet in white wine. Press that material well because that holds the virtue and it will be made, perfect and good. Put it in a well-stoppered glass bottle and let it stay in the sun for at least a month. Then keep it in a secure place for your needs. Here we will speak in part of its straight-forward virtues. First, it is powerful against plague. Rub it on the heart and then around the sores and around the pulses of the head, the sternum and on the stomach. It should be very warm.

Another. It is powerful against poisonous drinks when this oil is drunk and rubbed warm around the heart.

Another. It is powerful against worms in anyone, by drinking a drop of it and rubbing all the pulses, the nose and around the heart.

Another. It is powerful against the bite of serpents, rubbed warm around the heart and the bite, as long as the oil does not touch the puncture or the patient will die.

Another. It is powerful against the bite of a rabid dog when it is rubbed as described above.

Another. It is powerful against abcesses, rubbing them with very warm oil.

Another. It is powerful against ulcers when they are not open and when it is rubbed very warm.

Another. It is powerful against the illness of stone. Rub the pubic area and the kidneys with the very warm oil and rub well with the hands so it penetrates.

Another. It is powerful against illness of the ribs, rubbing the sore place. It should be very warm.

Another. It is powerful against pain in the ears. It should be warm. Rub around the ears and put a little in and soon you will cure the pain. I do not speak of other uses, but study these well.

Various medicines for illness of the spleen in several ways.

Take the same amount of roots of cyclamen and dittany, crush them between two lodestones and incorporate this with male pork fat. Put this warm on the spleen in the evening and morning. Do this repeatedly for the pain and soon you will cure the spleen. This has been tested.

Another. Take plowman's spikenard and make it into juice and drink this for 9 mornings in a row and you will be cured quickly.

Another. Take the bark of the ash tree and cook it with good wine and use this to drink and you will be helped greatly. If there is swelling of the spleen, take nettle root, well-minced, and mix it with white wine. Heat it well and put it on and it will help greatly. If the spleen is not swollen, take hart's tongue, that is spleenwort, cooked with wine and drink this in the form of a syrup for 30 days. It helps a great deal.

Another. Take oil of dill and rub this warm across the spleen. Then take the urine of a child and wet some stupes and warm them and fasten them on well. Make powder of the herb catchweed, which blocks up the fish ponds, and drink it in the morning with some broth and you will be cured soon. Also take oil of capers and the same amount of laurel oil and equal amounts of the bark of capers and of tamarisk, made into powder, and a little wax. Make an ointment and rub yourself with this warm, and soon you will be cured.

Another. Take flowers and leaves of tamarisk, as much as you wish. Dry it in the shade and make fine powder of it. Give the patient one spoonful in a fresh egg or in wine. Then give a few raisins with a finger of wine on them for 15 to 20 days and soon he will feel much better.

Another. Take ½ handful each of rosebuds before they are open, betony, valerian, sage, mint, rue, horehound and flowers and leaves of tamarisk. Dry them and make fine powder and give it to drink with a fresh egg or with wine. Do this several times and it will help greatly.

Another to resolve the indurated spleen. Take some ordinary oil, as much as you wish, and put it in a pot and put therein 1 handful of wild cucumbers. Let this boil until they are falling apart. Then put in some others and do this 3 times. Then take this oil and with it, very warm, rub the painful place on the spleen and by continuing this you will cure rapidly.

