Make an ointment in the following way. Take the herb rusty fern and the same amount of tamarisk and cut them minutely and cook them in oil of capers and oil of laurel berries, each the same amount. In the evening when you go to sleep, rub the sore place of the spleen with the ointment very warm and put on warm cloths. Do this for 3 lunar months and without doing anything else you will be cured. It has been tested many times.

Another to cure pain of the spleen quickly. Take the gall bladder of a goat and put it on the painful spleen and let it stay on for one whole day, that is 24 hours. Then hang the gall bladder in a bowl either in the chimney or in the sun and when the gall bladder is dry, the spleen will then be cured. This has been tested.

Another to cure the spleen. Take rue and grind it with honey and with fenugreek flour and put it warm on the spleen. Do this several times and it will be helpful. Likewise, take leaves of willow and grind them with salt and put them warm on the spleen. Do this several times and the illness will be diminished and you will be cured in the name of God.

For sickness of the spleen, a wonderful ointment that lifts the pain quickly.

Take 2 ounces each of laurel oil and oil of capers. In the evening when you go to sleep, rub the afflicted spleen, standing with the body before the fire and with the oil very warm. Then take a stupe and soak it in urine and make it very warm. Heat it on the fire shovel and put it on the spleen and it will help you greatly.

Another ointment for induration of the spleen. Take 6 drams each of mustard powder and rue, 2 ounces each of marsh mallow and laurel oil and 1 ounce of clean wax. Make an unguent on a slow fire. In the evening, facing toward the fire, rub yourself with it very warm and put on a very warm stupe and cloth. Do this several times and you will be cured. Keep your life well regulated and use water as little as you can.

Another ointment for the spleen, as above. Take 4 glasses of the oldest ordinary oil that you can find. Otherwise use as much urine from a healthy child. Add 1 handful each of rue and rusty fern. Boil everything together in a pot and reduce it 2/3. Rub yourself with this when you go to sleep. It should be warm and put on a stupe and warm cloths, well wrapped. Use this ointment every evening. By keeping yourself from adverse things, you will be cured.

Another ointment to heal the spleen. Take 2 drams of mucilage from fenugreek, 2 ounces of mucilage from linseed, 1 ½ drams of mucilage from marsh mallow, 2 ½ ounces of oil of camomile, of adder's tongue fern or rusty fern, 6 drams of turpentine and 3 ounces each of laurel oil and tercia mortiaton . Boil all these things together on a slow fire and add 3 ounces of clean wax and equal amounts of oil of capers and juice of cyclamen. Rub the patient by the fire so that he is very warm and put on a stupe and warm cloths, fastened tightly, and soon you will cure him.

Poultices against hardness and inflammation of the spleen.

Take 1 handful each of sweet clover, camomile, rusty fern, rue, fenugreek, cumin, anise and myrtle. Boil everything together in good white wine and when it has reduced 1/4 put therein 1 lb. of very strong vinegar and let it come to a boil. Then make the poultice in this way, take 2 pieces of felt or wool cloth, as large as the hand or 2 flat sponges and soak them in the decoction that is very warm. Press them out with the hand and with this as warm as one can stand, put one on the indurated spleen and let it stay until the greatest heat has gone away. Then put on the other one hot. Do this 4 or 5 times in the evening and in the morning and the malignant illness of the spleen will be dried up.

Another poultice for pain of the spleen. Take 1 handful each of bark of capers and of ash tree, that is the inner layer, and the bark of tamarisk, black maiden hair fern, white maiden hair fern, rusty fern and spleenwort. Boil them in the best white wine and very strong vinegar because the stronger it is, the better it works. Then make the poultice in the way described above and the warmer, the better.

To cure the pain of the spleen in 24 hours or more. Take the bark of the walnut tree as wide and as long as the painful area. Leave it for 3 days in very strong vinegar and put thereon powder of lesser spurge. Make it warm and put it on the painful spleen, wrapped thickly. If it burns you, tolerate it as much as you can because that is a good sign of a rapid cure.

*Another, a syrup for the spleen. Take 1 handful each of bugloss, liverwort, sweet balm, agrimony, spleenwort and tamarisk, ½ ounce of sweet flag, 6 ounces each of raisins and licorice, 1 ounce each of Arabian lavender, borage flowers and bugloss, ½ handful of primula and 2 lb. of sugar and make a syrup. The dose is 3 ounces with water.

Poultice for illness of the spleen.

