Another syrup for the spleen that also helps the liver. Take 1 ounce each of simple sorrel syrup and syrup of endive and strained rose syrup and 1 ounce each of water distilled from sorrel, endive and hops. Incorporate them and make the 7 syrups. Take it tepid, early in the morning and rest a little as usual. Lastly take a dose of cassia and you will be cured rapidly.

Another syrup for the spleen as described above. Take 1 handful each of caper root, raisins, adder's tongue fern, rusty fern, water germander, tamarisk and spleenwort. Boil everything together and make a decoction and make a syrup and take it in the way described above.

Another syrup to take away the thirst in the sick person. Take 1 handful each of agrimony, chicory, betony, wormwood and raisins. Boil them and make a decoction and make the 7 syrups to take in the way described before. You should know that the above syrups are appropriate in all the above illnesses of the spleen and quench the thirst. At the end take the medicine of cassia or some other simple medicine such as muccaro roxato sulutivo and you will be greatly helped.

Another beverage against the illness of the spleen. Take some leaves of mullein, that is the male plant that has a single stalk, and take the more tender leaves and make juice. Drink this one morning yes, the next no, at least for 5 or 6 mornings, in the form of a warm syrup, and you will see a wonderful effect on the spleen.

Beverage for illness of the spleen.

Take 1 handful each of the inner bark of the ash tree, hound's tongue, celery, tamarisk, horehound, maiden hair fern, spleenwort and sage. Boil this in white wine in an earthenware vessel until it is reduced 1/3. Then strain it and press it in the press and extract all the substance well. Combine it and save it in a flask in a cool place. For an entire month continually drink one glass of it warm early every morning, without fail. Also watch what you eat and you will be cured soon.

Another beverage as above. Take 5 ounces of water of dittany, distilled in a glass still, every morning in the form of a warm syrup and continue this for 20 days. Keep yourself from all adverse things and do not drink too much water and you will be cured. This has been tested many times.

Another beverage as above. Take some honeysuckle seed that is well-matured and dry it. Then make it into very fine powder. Drink 1 dram of it with white wine in the morning in the form of a warm syrup for 40 mornings. It reduces the spleen and lifts the pain and makes the spleen return to its original condition.

Another beverage as above. Take betony and boil it with good white wine and drink 4 ounces warm every morning. It will markedly reduce the spleen.

Another beverage as above. Take some seeds of madder, grind them and make fine powder. Drink this with honeyed vinegar on an empty stomach. It will markedly reduce the spleen.

Another beverage as above. Take 1 dram of gum ammoniac and dissolve it in white vinegar. Drinking this several times clears up the spleen. Or make a plaster with vinegar and apply it on the outside. It will do a great deal and also it aids the liver.

Another beverage for the above illness of the spleen. Take 1 handful each of the inner bark of the ash tree which stays green, leaves of tamarisk and rusty fern. Boil them in good white wine until it reduces nearly in half. Strain this well and save it in a flask and use it to drink as a syrup for 9 mornings in a row and you will be cured.

Electuary to reduce and heal the spleen.

