Take 2 handfuls of the herb dill, 1 handful of rusty fern and ½ handful each of betony and hyssop. Grind them and extract juice and give it to the patient to drink in the form of a syrup for 9 mornings in a row. It will clear up the hardness of the spleen, little by little. Take care of yourself and help yourself by eating correctly. Do not do anything excessively if you wish to be cured rapidly and you will be cured.

Poultice for hardness in the swollen spleen.

Take the herb of Saint John, called burdock, and crush it very well between 2 lodestones and make a plaster with a beaten egg and a little rye flour and incorporate everything well together. Then make it very warm and put it on the hard, swollen spleen. Make this plaster for several evenings and it will diminish the spleen and greatly alleviate the pain and soon you will cure it. Furthermore, make use of these for the sick one to eat: agrimony and rusty fern as herbs or made into powder and sprinkled on food. These will help greatly. If you boil willow bark and caper bark in wine and give this to drink with all food, it will dry out the swollen spleen wonderfully. In a few days it will be cured.

Another to cure the spleen. Take 2 ounces each of celery juice, cyclamen juice, juice of fern root and urine from a dog or young boy of 8 to 10 years, and 4 ounces of ordinary oil. Boil everything together and when it is cooked, add a little clean wax, as much as you want, and make it in the form of an unguent. Rub the hardened spleen with this in the morning and evening. It should be warm and stand by the fire or in the sun and wrap it well. Do this several times and, through God's grace, you will be cured.

Another for illness of the spleen. Take some roots of yellow violets, cut them minutely, and cook them in strong white vinegar and make a plaster with cumin and powdered caper bark. Put it warm on the painful spleen and soon it will restore health. Continuing with this plaster lifts the cruel hardness.

Many men who are expert in the art of medicine say that all of the above-described things work powerfully, especially taking some nettles and grinding them between two lodestones and then incorporating them with a little clean wax. Make it warm and bind it on the painful spleen. Do this several times. It will help greatly to resolve the hardness. If you know how to take of yourself and regulate your way of living well and with all these other things, I tell you that, with the aid of God, you will be cured. Observe the rules given above and do not deviate from them.

Beverage for every incurable infirmity that may be in any member of the body.

Take 1 ounce each of betony, agrimony, French lavender, eyebright and raisins, 2 drams of fennel seed, 1 dram of anise, ½ dram of cinnamon and ½ bowl of rosemary flowers. Boil everything in 12 lb. of good white wine and boil it in a pot sealed with dough so that no gas escapes except though a little hole in the middle of the cover. Boil it on a slow fire until it is reduced 1/3. Strain it and save the residue in a glass flask. Then put in more wine on this residue and boil it again in the same way. Use this wine to drink with all meals and before meals. Take 6 ounces of the first boiling in the morning in the form of a syrup. Use these syrups in the morning according to how you feel. The infirmity in which this is good is for one who is impaired by sickness of the spleen or whose eyesight is impaired or who has other pains or aches in the body. You should do things suited to this condition and should not eat things that are not good and you will be cured quickly.

