Then take the first decoction and make syrup from 6 ounces of it and give it warm early in the morning. One should repose for one hour and wait for at least 4 hours before eating. Stay in a closed room and do not let in air and for several days only the light of an oil lamp because it is the air in which there are principles that harm greatly. You should know that to save yourself, you should stay in repose as much as you can and keep your body warm. Your diet should be white bread, well-aged and well-cooked. It would be better to have twice baked breads with some ground anise and a little sugar in them. Meat should be roasted and well-cooked and light and tender such as very young chickens or saddle of young goats and soft fresh eggs. Everything should be well cooked and easy to digest. Chew the food well and drink some of the second water with every meal. If by chance this is not possible to do, take a little white wine, light in nature and not sour. Do not eat salty food, nor vegetables, nor fruits, nor sour things, nor soup, nor pork meat, nor young beef, nor fish of any kind except pickerel on the grill if only a little is taken at a time. When the meat is cooked, keep it soft with veal fat and with no other fat. Eat twice a day and no more. Drink wine only in this way, diluted a little with the second water, and it will help you better. When you have finished drinking the first boiling, use the second, the third and the fourth, more or less according to how rapidly it is consumed. Every 10 days is enough for each time, because following this diet cures this infirmity perfectly. It is not effective in less than 40 days or sooner, more or less, because never or seldom is one completely cured because this illness is healed with great effort. Who does it willingly and for a long time, keeping himself well, I say that he will be cured. Be advised in this, that in every 8 to 9 days you will be feeling better. First the pain of the temples stops, then the aches, then you will begin to get out of bed, to walk a little in the room, then to see the outside. Do not worry but have companionship. Think of all cheerful things and stay happy and not melancholy and give thanks to God that soon you will be cured.

Treatment for the French sickness. First purge the body in this way.

Purgation. First make the sick one take a dose of senna. Then do phlebotomy from the hepatic vein and take the amount of blood following the judgment of the doctor that the strength of the sick one can tolerate. Then give these laxative syrups written below, 5 or 7. Then from the decoction written below, give 2 syrups, in the morning and in the evening for 30 to 40 days, more or less, according to the strength of the patient. These are the laxative syrups. Vz.

Take 1 ounce each of polypody fern, senna, endive seed and fumitory, ½ ounce each of thyme, thyme dodder and dodder, 2 drams each of shaved licorice, colchicum, black hellebore and turbith, 1 ounce each of flowers of bugloss and borage, and 10 ounces each of water of dodder, of fumitory, of hops and of betony. Boil all of the above in cistern water until they reduce 1/3 and before you lift it from the fire, put therein the flowers of bugloss and borage so that they will boil a little. Let all this material infuse for 24 hours. Then boil it on a slow fire as before. Remove it from the fire and let it cool and strain it finely through muslin. Save this decoction in a sealed flask and in a cool place. All the roots should be crushed and the other things very clean and washed when you put them to infuse.

When you want to give these syrups, take 4 ounces of this infusion and mix them with 1 dram of compound syrup of fumitory, ½ ounce of syrup of lace thyme and 6 grains of scammony. Compound all these things together and make a syrup for one dose. In this way and method make additional ones and take it for 5 to 7 days. If it is too laxative, take it one day yes, the next no, and as a rule do it early in the morning as a tepid dose and afterward repose yourself for an hour. This is the usual rule for taking the syrups.

Next, after taking this syrup, make this other beverage and take these second syrups, that is 2 a day, in the morning and the evening, 4 hours before a meal. Drink the second beverage with every meal as you will learn below.

This is the beverage to use to cure the pains, the gummas and the sores of the French illness and the rules for making it.

Take 9 ounces each of guaiac wood and bark of this wood, 1 handful of holy thistle, 4 lb. each of white wine that is not sweet, water of hops, water of betony and barley water, 1 dram of rhubarb and 4 ounces of Levant senna. Put the waters and the wine in a clean pot and put therein the holy thistle. Cut the rhubarb and put it to soften in one ounce of this water for one night, then strain it into the pot. Put in the wood which has been turned into fine shavings and the bark cut up and ground finely. Put on the cover with dough well around so that no gases come out except through the opening that is in the center.

Then put it on the fire and boil it very slowly until it reduces 1/3. But first let everything soften, that is infuse, for one whole day. When it has boiled, remove it from the fire and uncover it and put in the senna. Return it to cook as at first and reboil for ½ hour. Then remove it from the fire and let it cool covered. Strain it finely and with dexterity and save it in a covered glass flask and keep it in a cool place. Refill the pot with cistern water and cook it covered as before and reboil it until it reduces 1/3. Strain it and save this in a place that stays cool to drink at all meals and before meals.

Use the first syrup in this way. Early in the morning give some tepid syrup and the sick one should stay in bed, very warm, at least 5 hours. Give 9 ounces of the syrup on the hour and then in a half hour give it at his lunch and in the evening give the syrup 4 hours before the meal and if the syrup seems bitter, put in a little rose syrup and he will take it more easily and without complaint.

Note that when the sick person may feel at the beginning some aches and pains in the body, this is the best sign there can be in the sick person of a cure. Keep to the rules and with compliance for 30 to 40 days, more or less, according to whether the infirmity is little or great, old or recent, because if the sickness is not too great one can allow some little things to advantage. Not to follow the rules is to be without compassion because such an infirmity demands rigor and austerity because otherwise it will not be cured well. This is by the authority of all medical doctors and books where this is found.

Gummas. Note that if the sick person has gummas or sores on the body, treat with the first decoction in this way. Wet some pieces of linen cloth and make them very warm and put them on the gummas or sores. Do this in the morning and evening and they will be opened up so they will be healed, with the aid of God.

About care. Note that it is beneficial for your life to live moderately for all this time. That is, eat white bread, well cooked and well risen, or biscuits with sugar and anise or well-ground fennel and eat these. Drink the above-described water at least with meals at the beginning until you are much better. Then you will be able to drink a little white wine, young and not sour and diluted a little with the above water. Eat veal meat, pullets, kid and other tender meat, roasted and rubbed with veal fat or a drop of oil, and fresh eggs. Do not eat soup of any kind, nor sour fruit, nor vegetables, nor vinegar, nor sour things, nor sauces. Do not eat rooster meat. Do not use your woman.

Observe the above rules, methods and prescriptions. Although they may seem strange, I tell you that with divine aid you will be cured. I tell you clearly that you should follow the provisions above and do not let the disease mature on you so that it can never be cured. Note that the old French sickness either never or rarely is cured. I have said rarely, because I have seen some that have the oldest illness and the most acute pain and they have been freed and remain healthy. Anyone who has been cured of the French sickness, if by chance he has another illness, will be always worse than he would have been if he had not had the French sickness. If a man is wounded who was freed of the French sickness and recently was cured, yet if a finger is cut by cutting bread that usually would be cured in 24 hours, it is not cured in 40 days. You understand how harmful is the effect of the disease.

Lotion with a gargle for those who have the French sickness, with 3 syrups given before the medicine.

Take ½ ounce each of syrup of juice of fumitory, hops and endive and 1 ounce each of water of endive, hops and fumitory. Mix these 3 kinds of syrups with the 3 kinds of waters and this makes one syrup. Take 3 of these in a row and afterward take the medicine written below. Viz.

The medicine. Take 1 ounce of fresh extract of cassia, 1 ounce each of juice of violet and rose, 1 ounce each of diacatolicon, electuary of rose juice and confection of ameche and enough water of hops and your medicine is made. Give it warm at dawn and by reposing at least an hour until it begins to work, it will have a good action. On the advice of the doctor, draw blood where it seems to him that it will have a good and useful effect on the sick person and it can only benefit him to do this before giving the medicine.

These are the syrups that the sick person in given to use after he has taken the first medicine. They are wanted for those who have the French sickness that is not recent and who are liverish, yellow and dropsical and with other problems that the person may have inside. Use all these items for your cure. Viz. Take 1 ounce each of colocynth and round birthwort, 2 ounces each of cloves, nutmeg, long pepper, ginger and grains of paradise, 2 scruples each of musk and amber, 6 ounces of fine sugar and 3 lb. of malvasia or good wine. Break up all these things coarsely and put them in a little linen sack that is clean and pure. Take a clean little pot or other suitable vessel and put in the malvasia and 2 or 3 lb. of cistern water. Then put in the sack which should be suspended in the middle so that it does not touch the bottom or even the sides of the pot. Make it boil very slowly with a low fire until it reduces 1/3. Then put in the sugar and after it has reached 2 or 3 boilings, remove it from the fire and it will be made, the beverage which is worthy and high class. When it is cool, strain it carefully. Save it in a glass flask, pressing the sack well and save it in a secure place that is cool because the longer it has been made, the better it is and it does not spoil. See that the patient takes it every morning as the usual syrup, at least 6 ounces, if he has the kind of sickness that requires following the rule of what ought to be taken. Then he should wait at least 4 or 5 hours before eating and he should eat only good food, delicate and light, and this without exception. He should not eat things that are harmful, nor things sour, nor salty and in all things he should be temperate.

If the sick person finds that he feels better, he should continue to take this syrup at least for 20 to 30 days in a row. When you have taken a dose you should stay in bed, warm, at least nearly until lunch. Then after eating, according to the infirmity that you have, you can go out of the house to do something easy and keep well covered, especially the head, and do not stay a long time in the air because this syrup is not a cure for everything. That is, you should be careful except in the morning and act according to how you feel. You should be governed by the seriousness of the sickness that you have and if the legs can hold up to walk.

Note that if the patient has the serious French sickness with great pain and may have taken 4 or 6 or 10 doses of the above syrup, one may want to anoint from the waist downward to under the soles of the feet for the space of 3 mornings and not more, that is one after the other. He should stand before a good fire and then be rubbed with the ointment very warm and then be put in a good bed, covered with a blanket. But note that if the sickness comes suddenly into the mouth, that is in the throat, you should treat him at once with this gargle, giving it repeatedly for gargling. In this way he will be helped quickly to remove the trouble in the throat.

This is the lotion with which the patient is rubbed. First take these things. Viz. Take 2 ounces each of oil of camomile, rose oil and turpentine, ½ ounce of yellow litharge, 2 drams of mastic, 1 ounce each of white lead and clean wax, quicksilver mortified with a grain of salt and 1 ounce of vinegar, 1 scruple of rancid butter and 2 egg yolks. Put all these things in a pot and put in first the oil, the wax, the turpentine and the butter. Put the pot on a slow fire to melt and incorporate these things, mixing it with a rod. Then remove the pot from the fire and put therein the other things that have been pulverized finely. When it is nearly cold, put in the quicksilver, first mortified well with the vinegar and salt in a reed tube in a bowl. Also put in the egg yolks. Stir well with your rod for a little bit so everything is incorporated together and all is well cooled because the mercury has difficulty being incorporated. It tends to separate out, so do not lack being careful. Also the lotion becomes more fine and perfect and has greater power. You should rub the patient with the French sickness with this oil or unguent as described above, before a good fire. Begin from the waist and always go downward nearly to the soles of the feet. Do this for 3 mornings in a row as is said before, and then the patient should stay in bed very warm. Because the sickness may move immediately to the throat, first prepare the gargle. For a half hour before you do the rubbing, the patient should take in the mouth a little rock alum the size of half a chestnut and always roll it around in the mouth and then spit it out and begin to gargle freely. When you wish to begin to rub, light a good fire and remove the clothing and rub gently downward. As the sickness is felt to come in the throat, at once remove the alum that was in the mouth and begin the gargle with the decoction written below. Viz.

This is of such power and value that it does not allow the sickness in the throat to increase or swell but makes it more fluid and increases sputum in order to spit out freely. This will continue for a day and a half. Keep on with gargling. It will not prevent the illness that comes in the mouth but enables one to spit it out. At the end of the three days in which you do the anointing, the patient stays thus for 2 or 3 days without using anything else, neither syrup nor beverage, but keep him resting with delicate food for sustenance according to its availability.

Then begin to use the above-described syrups. As much is taken until the sickness is much improved and the patient's great suffering has lightened. At this time the patient cannot know if he has recovered. It is good if he feels somewhat improved from the gravity of the sickness, but if not at present, then it may be 'yes' in a few days. Now the medicine causes a sign of great benefit to the patient. The lost appetite returns and he eats with eagerness and great appetite. So nature is nourished and the patient becomes better although not as before. He should not risk acting in a disorderly way in eating and in other things and should keep to the orders and rules given above and, with the aid of God, soon he will be cured because this is the best treatment that is in the world.

Note that these remedies are useful in every serious infirmity. This beverage is used for gargling more or less according to its effectiveness and how the patient feels. Also he can take a syrup every other day according too how it seems to the master apothecary who is treating him. This cannot well be put in writing because the master apothecary is the one who knows how serious the sickness is. You should know that it is certain that the gargle will bring you honor above all other things. Every time it is used, always mix the container well so that the patient receives some of the substance that stays at the bottom. Use it when there is any illness in the throat. It is very appropriate for all sicknesses of the throat.

This is the water for gargling that is taken by mouth when one is being rubbed for the French sickness and also is good in other illnesses of the throat.

Take 4 ounces each of rose honey, water of endive, plantain, fumitory and rose water. These are the waters for making the gargle. Put them together in a container for using when needed as described above, from which God keep us.

Note, Master Apothecary, how you want to effect a cure. First, get the advice of the physician as to whether to take blood or not. Then follow your rules for giving the first 3 syrups and the medicine described above. Then give the usual syrups as above and when you have given 4 or 5 you will be able to begin to do the rubbing, slowly by the fire as described, and with that the alum in the mouth and as soon as the burning is felt, the patient should spit it out and begin to gargle with the above water. Be careful about everything and do not doubt that you will cure him through the aid of God. The patient should watch how he lives, as is said above, and keep from everything adverse and he will be cured. This is a worthy remedy for you. Be well.

*Unguent to medicate the sores of the French sickness. It has been tested. Take 1 ½ ounces each of mastic, frankincense, colofony, white lead and rose oil with quicksilver and 1 lb. of pork fat. Take the juice of 3 oranges to mortify the mercury and melt the fat in it. Compound the other things, little by little, and incorporate them well and make an unguent of it.

*Pills for pain in the joints. Take 6 ounces of hepatic aloe, 1 ounce of colchicum, 1 ½ ounces of scammony and 1 ounce of red roses with fumitory juice. Grind everything finely and take 2 parts of this paste and mix it and make pills. These are good in the above sickness with pain in the joints and also is useful in gout. It has been tested.

Best remedy tested for the French sickness.

Take 6 ounces of the bark and wood of guaiac, that is the holy wood, and it should be reduced to very fine powder. Put it in a pot that holds six or more jugs and fill it with good white wine. Sharp wine is better if you can find it. Make it boil very slowly until it reduces 1/3 and stir it a few times and cover it. Then put in these things made into fine powder, viz., ½ ounce of mastic, 6 ounces of cyclamen, 2 ounces of root of elecampane, ½ dram of agaric and 1 ½ drams of holy thistle. Put everything in the pot with its cover well-sealed around with dough and let it boil this way for a half hour. Then remove it from the fire and let it cool. Strain it carefully and save it in a clean glass flask, well-covered. Give the patient a glass of this decoction in the morning at dawn. Give another glass in the evening 2 hours before dinner as you did in the morning. Then the patient should drink it also at all meals. In the same way that you provided the first beverage, you should make it again and do this several times so you will have enough for 40 days and, at the end of the 40 days with the aid of God, you will have cured him. The patient should be careful of all adverse things and follow the rules of living that are written below. Viz.

Eat dry foods as much as you can and do not eat humid things. Eat mutton, kid, capon, hens pullets, fresh eggs, almonds, pine nuts and raisins with bread well-baked or double-baked. Do not doubt that if you do not develop any other disorder, you will be cured with the aid of God and of men during the prescribed time.

Pills for the French sickness. Take wild cucumber, well-ground, and extract juice through a sieve with pressure and put it in a clay basin or other vessel. Cover it and put it in the sun and the useful part will form at the bottom, the good part, and little by little you can throw away that which is more clear on the top. Let the bottom part dry well so that it will be like clay. Then gather it up and save it as powder. Take an amount of this powder the size of a little bean and mix it with as much rose honey until you can make a little pill like a bean, more or less according to the constitution of the patient, and give it with a little wine in the morning, not more than one at a time. Give this pill at the beginning of treatment and give another in 15 days and you will help purge the body well. Note that the places where there are pains can be bathed with this boiled liquid and it will help considerably.

Another gargle. Take 3 ounces of diamoron , 2 ounces of rose honey, ½ ounce of rock alum, one handful each of sage and tamarind and one jug of good white wine. Boil everything in a pot until it reduces 1/3 and have the patient hold it in his mouth as warm as he can. Do this several times and you will see a good result. This has been tested.

Syrup active against the French sickness used by a doctor of the King of England. Take 1 lb. of guaiac wood and 8 ounces of its bark, cut and ground very finely, and 2 lb. of Levant senna, ½ ounce of rhubarb and 4 lb. each of water of betony, of hops, of holy thistle, barley water and the best white wine that you have that is not sweet, and also one handful of the holy thistle as the herb. Put everything in a clean pot with a cover sealed around with dough so no gases can escape except through a little opening in the center of the cover where you can stir it with a little stick. Let it stay this way for one night to infuse. Then put it on the fire to boil...

slowly with a clear fire until it reduces 1/3. Remove it from the fire and let it cool with its cover. Then strain it carefully and save this in glass, well-covered, and the syrup will be made. Give a glass of it to the patient every morning at dawn. He should stay in bed one hour and not more and should not sleep but should be sweating. Then he should walk if he can but not with too much air. Continue this every morning for 40 days. If the bowels move too much, he should take it one day yes, the next no. With this syrup you can also do the following. If the patient has skin infections, wash the sores with this decoction, warm. Then put on some threads from a man's shirt wet in this syrup and over that fasten well a piece of linen. If the sores are gummy, wet a little stupe of hemp and put it on warm and fasten it. Shortly you will see a perfect cure. This has been tested.

Keep to the orders and rules of life described above and do not fear if you wish to be cured rapidly. By observing the rules you will be healed as others have been.

