Another syrup against this kind of skin eruption occurring in the French disease. Take 6 ounces each of juice of borage and juice of red roses, 5 drams each of cherry plums, quinces and Indian elder. Soak everything in these juices for a day and boil it slowly. Then strain it. Take 6 ounces of oak fern, ½ ounce of sweet flag root and 1 dram of fennel seed. Make a decoction in the usual way with spring water. Make a syrup of that strained liquid and the previous infusion with enough sugar.

Then give this medicine: take ½ ounce each of diacatholicon and diaseno and 6 drams of ameche confection. Mix these with sugar and make a bolus that is taken at dawn and soon the patient will be well.

Another syrup and medicine to cure one who has the French sickness and the skin eruption. Take 4 ounces of an infusion of senna and one ounce each of laxative rose syrup and syrup of endive. Mix these and take it as usual. If it moves the bowels too much, give it one day yes, the next no. Then give this medicine, viz. Take 3 ounces of laxative rose syrup and 2 drams of the electuary of rose juice and 2 ounces of senna infusion. Mix and take as usual. If the infusion of senna is drunk, it quite often removes melancholy. Usually it is suitable to use senna in every French sickness because in this sickness it acts naturally and appropriately. If in spite of the syrups the sickness continues, give the patient the boiled liquid from the wood as written above and he will be cured.

Another laxative and supportive syrup. Take 4 ounces of senna, 6 ounces of raisins, 3 ½ ounces of polypody fern and 5 ounces of damson plums. Boil everything together until it reduces 1/3. Strain it and save it and give 5 ounces every morning at dawn. Give it warm, as usual, and give it 7 times and after it give a dose of medicine and you will help those greatly who have skin eruptions.

Pills for the French sickness. Take pills only of fumitory and chuochia , one scruple each. Form 3 pills with water of betony and take these once a week.

Oil against the French sickness. This oil is made of guaiac wood, that is the holy wood. Take some of the wood cut into minute pieces and put them in a pot with the opening fastened downward with the fire above and collect the oil below, in the way that is called distilling in reverse. Look in the section on making oil of juniper and you will see the rules that are used. Use the wood that is oily and odoriferous and heavy and extract the oil. These are its virtues, viz:

The virtues of the oil made from guaiac wood. It is powerful to get rid of the hard sores from the French sickness. It removes the scabs and reduces the pain when the infected part is rubbed with the warm oil. Also it is miraculous in those who have the French sickness in the mouth and in the uterus. Also it useful for anyone who has cold and humid sicknesses. By continuing to rub with it 2 times a day it will cure. Also one can extract oil from this wood as the alchemists do with the distilling flask. First they extract the water. Then by increasing the fire you will extract oil. Also one can extract it as the oil of yellow sulfur is extracted.

Another. If you make powder, that is ashes, of this wood before you extract any substance, you should know that this ash powerfully dries and strengthens and also is more potent than that of oak and is more aromatic. It is extremely powerful in alopecia and works many miracles because it heals quickly. When it is used to treat the above conditions, they are cured through God's grace.

