Another oil to remove the above-described pains. Take 2 lb. of good turpentine, 2 ounces each of gum from climbing ivy and myrrh, 1 ounce each of liquid storax and incense, 1 handful of sweet flag roots and ½ ounce of cinnabar. Everything should be cut up and ground finely. Incorporate everything together and distill it in a glass retort. First make the fire low and out will come clear water. Then increase the fire and out will come oil. Save this as something dear. When you want to rub the painful spots, heat it and put it on a stupe of warm hemp and put the patient in bed where he is warm for at least 4 hours. This ointment makes a very good enema and it will help considerably.

Another to cure the gummas of the French sickness. Take Armenian red clay, rose oil and strong vinegar and rub around the gumma at a distance of 2 or 3 fingers. Then take ½ ounce of oil of euphorbia and 2 drams of oil of violets and rub the gumma. First wash with warm red wine and put on a cloth smeared with butter and leave it for 4 hours and it will be blistered. Break the blister open. Then treat with a healing unguent and it will soon be cured.

Another for the above-described gummas. Wash first with wine to soothe them. Take 3 drams of gold unguent and 3 drams of powdered sublimate and incorporate them as a plaster and treat the gumma. You will find the lesion removed in one day and the flesh covered over. After doing it the first time and 2 or perhaps 3 times, it becomes old and hard. When the scab goes away, put thereon some butter washed with wine on a cloth and soon it will be healed. This unguent with sublimate draws out all the edema and all the bad humors that are around in that kind of sickness. It purges this bad condition so it does not give more trouble and you may find it perfectly cured. It is good for you.

*For the calluses of the hands from the French sickness. Take 1 handful each of mallow, viola, cabbage and bran and 1 lb. of mutton fat. Boil everything with mild lye. Then receive the fumes of this on the hand. Do this 2 times a day for 8 days and they will go away and not return. Then rub the hands with this ointment, viz. Take goat fat, chicken fat and lard and mix them together and use this to rub until you have made a cure. But you need to wear gloves.

To make the best and true rose honey.

 Take 50 lb. of water from the spring, well or cistern and 5 or 6 lb. of clean roses without leaves, more or less according to whether you want to make the best or not. You will need a tub or a vat, either large or small, to be able to hold half of the defoliated roses, more or less according to your opinion and depending on the amount that you wish to make. Take the clean water and put it on the fire and when it wants to start boiling, do not let it boil but pour it boiling on the roses and you will have a mixture formed into a slab. Turn the roses upside down for a bit until they all become blanched white. Then cover the tub or vat or conch that should be in an appropriate cauldron wrapped with wool or linen to keep it warm so that the warmth keeps all the virtue or effectiveness in the water. Do this again for the second and third morning and this is enough. If you want to do it the fourth time, you can do it without adding more roses and it will be more odoriferous and more powerful. Draw out the roses that are soft and press them as firmly as you can with your hands and save these to make odorous water. Reheat this soft mixture little by little, that is the infusion, and do not add any more water than the first. You should put in all 3 infusions because it increases the strength. Always reheat well as you did at first and throw on fresh and clean roses. In this way you will have made the infusion to use to make rose honey.

