Then take 60 lb. of the clear infusion without the roses and 20 or 25 lb. of honey. The correct measure always is 1/3 part of honey and in this way you will make it perfect and effective. It is true that if you put in more honey, up to 30 or 35 lb. it makes a bigger amount and it will be more to your profit but it will not have then all the medicinal properties. To be perfect it needs to have that much of the rose infusion. When you have mixed in the honey, put the cauldron on the fire and heat it very well and stir with your ladle so it incorporates well together. When it is very warm, skim it well. Then you should have prepared your pointed bags, at least 3 or 4 or 6 or more, partly of linen and partly of wool and they should be fastened as you see above. Put therein some of this prepared broth and strain it very slowly until it comes out clear. Put it in again several times so it comes out in clear drops, beautiful and clean and looks like a ruby. If it will not come out when it cools, reheat it again and more if needed until it distills in very clear drops....

because this filtrate contains all the important material for beauty and also for effectiveness. By putting it repeatedly through the sacks, the drops will come out clear and beautiful. Save the foam that you remove when it is on the fire. Do not throw it away because in the bottom resides much that is also good. Do not let it boil because it would thicken and not strain easily. If it is difficult to strain because of its thickness, reheat it again. It needs to be warm to filter easily. Be warned that bees and wasps will be after it actively. Watch that you keep it in a safe place. Then put it again in your clean cauldron and make the fire underneath so that it boils very slowly. Stir well with your ladle so that none sticks to the bottom and takes on the odor of smoke that would not be good. It will develop much foam and lift that away very carefully and put it in a sack and so it strains by itself. Let it boil until it is well cooked but not burned and let it boil slowly. Do this test on a card. Let 2 or 3 drops fall and if they stay well joined together and firm and do not slide when the card is tilted, then it is cooked. At once remove it from the fire and save it warm in a vitreous pottery vessel so that it does not take on the odor of copper. In this way you will have made your rose honey, good and perfect in every way for beauty and quality.

Note that if you were to make a furnace so you could wall in the cauldron with clay so the flames were not able to get in, you would be more certain that you would not take in the smoke or other bad odors. When it has been well filtered, you should know that when it is cooked it will not form a sediment at the bottom of the vessel as happens with those that are badly filtered. Be warned of this. The effectiveness as a laxative is related to the amount of roses you put in. Of all of its properties, I want to say that for cleaning out the stomach, this is the most suitable in any way that you will take it.

Note that if you want to make rose honey quickly because of necessity, put the roses to soften for at least 9 hours, although usually it should not be less than 24 hours. In this method you may be able to make a little of it for a need. Filter it so it is clear and this is its beauty.

Muccharo and rose laxative, effective and perfect.

