Take some dew, the dew that falls in the night, and collect it with a sponge or clean cloth. Collect it from good herbs, that is from burnet saxifrage, tarragon, endive, fennel and cabbage. Collect it in the good period which is April or May. That collected from cabbage works wonderfully to make the body go. Do not take it from those growing wild in the fields. They are not good. Then take 10 flasks of the dew and put it in a cauldron and heat well until it wants to boil but it should not boil. Have 9 lb. of clean and fresh roses collected in the morning with the dew on them, because this dew contains much laxative power. If you are not able to collect them each morning as described, put the roses out in the air in the evening on a blanket so the dew will fall down on them. It will also have a good effect but it is better to gather the roses with the dew on them. Continue in this way for 9 mornings and in the morning remove those that have been softened in the night and press them very well....

in the press and add this substance to the infusion. Then reheat this infusion and put therein the 9 lb. of roses described above and cover the tub or vat wherein you put them and put it in a place that stays very warm. Do this for 9 days in a row and if you do it more times it will be better.

Note that this is called the laxative infusion. Rose syrup is made from this infusion. You will be able to preserve it for a whole year in a vitreous vessel with a little olive oil on top so it stays covered and the air does not contaminate it and make it putrefy. Then strain this infusion with the sack in which you strained the rose honey and strain it finely so that it comes out clear and lustrous. Then put in some sugar from Saint Thomas or Madeira that is red. The redder it is the more laxative it is and it works better. First clean it in this way. Each 2 lb. of red sugar needs one egg white, well beaten, that is is made all into foam. Put in 2 lb of well water, or some of this infusion is better, and put it on a low fire. When you see that it has puffed up at the top and wants to begin to boil, do not let it boil but at once strain it very slowly through the strainer. Do not put in the foam but leave it at the bottom of the pot. In this way you will have cleaned the sugar.

