Note that this is the correct measure. Take 30 lb. of the infusion and 20 lb. of the red sugar clarified with egg white as described above. Put everything together in the clean cauldron. Put it on the fire and heat it well until it wants to boil but do not let it boil. Then strain it in the sack described above and make it strain very slowly. Strain it several times until at last the filtrate comes out clear, lustrous, beautiful and ruby-colored. If it is too cold to come out, you can reheat it. When it is warm it strains easily because it does not have so much viscosity. Do not touch the sack or it may come out turbid. In this way you will make the filtrate clear and beautiful. Then put it in a clean cauldron to cook on the fire. Using dry wood, make it boil slowly and stir repeatedly for good results. Let it boil until it reduces 1/3 or more. Test it by putting 2 or 3 drops on a card and if this stays firm and does not spread out on the card, it is made or you can put a little of the old paragon with the new. If it is not now as lustrous and ruby-colored, that is not important while it is cooking because as it becomes cold, it will take on color again.

Note that if one wants to make a good laxative, put in 2 drams of purging bindweed and tie it in a cloth and make a little button and tie it with a thread of yarn. Boil it in and when it is cooked, pull it out and throw it away. It is not useful any more. Likewise, you can boil in the preparation 1 handful of the herb hedge hyssop which grows in swampy meadows and has a leaf like hyssop and some call it our senna. Boil it in a little sack and when it is cooked, remove it and throw it away as it is of no more good. In this you will have made a red sugar laxative, the best and perfect. Remove it at once when it is cooked and put it in a good vitreous, clay vessel....

and keep it in a cool place, well covered. When you need to make the body go, this has no equal. The dose is 3 ½ ounces up to 4, but first experiment to see if 3 works or not with that made all of dew. Then boil in the scammony or the herb hedge hyssop and these 3 things make it very laxative. Dilute it with 2 ounces of mallow water and give it in the morning at dawn somewhat tepid and afterward one should repose for ½ hour although this is not a medicine for which repose is necessary. Everyone can take it with confidence.

Note that this laxative is useful in purging every choler and also in any tertian fever and joint pain caused by warm matter. It removes all the bad warm and feverish humors from which comes its benefit in the feverish and malign erysipelas. In the burning black fever, Persian anthrax, it is given together with diacatholicon and it clears out the remnants of the humors. Then the patients begin to be better and they trust in the medicine. They will not use it if they do not think it is helping. When you have given this medicine, in one hour give a bowl of chicken or mutton broth to drink with one ounce of red sugar.

Another. Some make it in this way. They take 9 lb. of cistern water and 9 lb. of roses, as above, and they make it in the way described above in 9 or 10 mornings. Then they do not put in the dew, but put in the scammony or the herb hedge hyssop. It is true that it works, but not as well as the dew does. It has been shown many times that the dew is more gentle and works very wonderfully. Keep to the rule given above and you will never fail and you will always get honor for it.

Note that when you want to refresh the laxative syrup, take 2 flasks of dew, one collected on burnet saxifrage, the other collected on cabbage. With the whites of 3 eggs purify the red sugar in the way that has been described above. If you will do this, you will receive honor in every way.

To make the best, effective and perfect julep.

Take the whites of 2 eggs and beat them well with a whisk in a pan until all is converted to foam. Then put in 4 or 5 lb. of well water and not less. Then put in 4 lb. of red sugar or less. With red sugar the julep becomes more clear and beautiful. Break it up with the hand so that it dissolves in the pot. Then put the pot on the fire and heat it slowly, I say very slowly. When it begins to swell, do not ever touch the foam but leave it alone. Do not break it or it may become turbid. To help it clear up while it is swelling, put in a little honey or 2 ounces of water from distilled white vinegar or sprinkle on the juice of one lemon or bitter orange or 4 seeds of sour grapes or as much burnt rock alum as a fava bean or less. Let the foam rise little by little and when you see that it is all swollen and about to begin to boil, do not for anything let it boil but at once remove it from the fire and pour it into 2 pointed sacks, made of wool and of felt, one in the other. Pour it very slowly so the foam does not go in but all remains in the pot. Let it filter so it comes out clear and beautiful. If it does not seem clear and lustrous to you, put it very slowly through another sack that is thicker and it will filter out more clear....

and lustrous. If by bad luck, it does not want to come out, do one more clarification only, but do not put in any sour things as you have done before because you may make it come out cloudy and then it could be cleared only with great effort and trouble. So you will have the filtrate clear and lustrous. Clean the pot well so it shines and put it again in the pot and reboil very slowly with a low, clear fire, because with boiling too furiously it wll become turbid. When it has boiled a half hour do the test on the card or on your fingernail to see if the drop is firm or not. If the drop is firm, it is cooked. Then pour in 2 or 3 ounces of good rose water or otherwise water of violet flowers. This is known as rose julep or violet julep. Then remove it from the fire and pour it into a clay basin, clean and polished and without odor, until it is cold. Then put it in your glass ampules, covered, and keep it in a cool place so it does not spoil. When it begins to ferment it is then neither so delicate nor good. It will last in the summertime for a month if it is well cooked. When the julep is made do not let it cook too long and then this julep is a clear yellow color, beautiful to see.

Note that if you make the julep of white sugar, you should do the clearing described above and not put in anything except that sugar and pure water. When it is finally cooked, put in your rose water or water of fresh violets. In this way you can make a good and effective julep from all the different sugars.

This julep is very powerful in cooling and alleviating the great distress of burning heat and fever if you drink it with boiled water or barley water or with fresh water. It alleviates the fierce heat of the liver and is good in many other conditions in medicine in addition to this.

Rose sugar, effective and beautiful, with some of its uses.

