Take the buds of red roses before they are completely open and cut away all that white underneath with a scissors so they are clean. Use 4 ounces of these to 1 lb. of sugar. Cut them finely and grind very minutely. Then take this pound of white sugar and purify it as you have done for the julep with an egg white and one pound or more of well water and convert the white all into foam. Then put in the water and break up the sugar with your hand and put it on the fire. When it starts to swell, do not put in anything. Let it rise well and as you see that it wants to begin to boil, remove it at once from the fire. Filter it in 2 pointed sacks and filter it well so it comes out clean. Then put it again in the pot that has been well-washed and clean and put it on the fire to cook. You will know when it is well cooked by seeing the sign. Then put in your roses that are well ground and make it boil for a good piece, always stirring with your ladle, around and up and down, so that everything is well incorporated. Remove it from the fire as it has been made and put it warm in your bottles and cover it until it is cold and put it ...

in the sun for 10 to 15 days. When it is very cold, stir very well so that it is mixed together and you will have a rose sugar, good, excellent and perfect, odorous and very pleasing. If you wish to make it a beautiful red, take a little red sandalwood and soak it in water until that is very red. When you have filtered the sugar, tint it with this water to the color that you want. Then it is time to put in your roses and when it is cooked it will be a beautiful red, odoriferous as the paragon, the Neopolitan red sugar that is made red in this way.

Note that if you want to make rose sugar from pink roses, it is not so beautiful to see but is as good and has the same virtues as this above and also keeps the laxative effect if you will make it in this way. Take some pink roses gathered with the dew or condensation on them. Defoliate them and do not cut away anything and be sure they are clean. Then cut them finely and grind very small. Take some red sugar, a little more than usual, and purify it with egg white as you have done above. Put therein a pound of roses with 3 ½ pounds of sugar, close to 4, and when the sugar is well cooked, put in the ground roses and boil it for a half hour or more. Remove the pot from the fire and while it is still warm, put it in a bottle and put it in the sun for 8 to 10 days. Stir up the bottle each day until it will not bubble up any more and it will keep well. It has the same properties and virtues as the rose sugar but it is more laxative. If you take a half ounce in the evening when you go to sleep and afterward drink 3 ounces of endive water, in the morning you will go from the body at least 2 or 3 times without any trouble. It has been tested.

