Another. The electuaries of borage and bugloss have nearly the same effectiveness. They correct much of the impairment of the stomach, the heart and the liver because they remove syncope, reduce tremor and get rid of every excess heat and help greatly in melancholy.

Another. The electuary of violets strikes against the heat of cholera, wards off thirst, gets rid of the heat of fever, relieves the chest and abdomen, helps one who suffers from a cough and may be given usefully at the beginning of pleurisy.

Another. The electuary of adiantos , that is of flowers of tamarind, has the same comforting effect and therefore is useful in treating all distresses of the heart.

Another. The electuary of flowers of water lily is very effective in removing the heat of venereal disease. Many other virtues are contained in this electuary that you will learn by working with it.

Simple oxymel, effective and good.

Take 2 lb. of honey and 2 egg whites, well beaten in the pot and made all into foam. Then put in the honey with 3 lb. of well water and put it on a slow fire until it has all foamed up. Do not touch it and when it begins to boil, remove it from the fire and strain it though 2 sacks, enough times so that it comes out very clear. Do not use those sacks to make the julep because it will be turbid. Wash the pot well and put the filtrate in it again and reboil very slowly until it reaches perfection in cooking and do the test on a card. Boil it until it reduces almost all the water and when it is close to being cooked, put in 6 ounces of very strong white vinegar and let it boil some. It will be made....

when it begins to thicken enough so that it has and holds the odor of the vinegar that it needs to be effective and good. This lasts longer than a julep. Keep it in a clean bottle.

Note some of the virtues of the simple oxymel. Primarily, it breaks up bad humors of various kinds and weakens them, especially humors in which phlegm predominates. It also breaks up humors in the stomach, the joints and the liver. In addition, mixed with fennel water, it is very active against prolonged fevers caused by excessive phlegm. It also has other virtues. Test it and you will see.

The way simple syrups are made, with some of their virtues.

