Take the kinds of herbs from which you wish to make syrups, such as endive, chicory, sorrel, fumitory, mint, lavender, violet, rose and the 2 roots. When you make the juice of all these herbs, be sure they are fresh, clean and well washed and dry and that they do not have dew on them. First cut each one by itself into fine pieces. Then grind them well and put them in a canvas sack and press them well under the press to extract the juice. Then put it in a pot or in a little cauldron that is clean and polished. Do this work quickly because the juice cannot sit once made and spoils very quickly. Therefore put it at once on the fire to cleanse it. Make the fire low until the foam comes to a head and let it boil very slowly for half an hour. Then strain it finely. In this way make the juices of all the above herbs. Also all others are made in this way except for some flowers and those herbs that do not have juice but are dry. You can save these juices separately and put them in flasks or carafes. Fill them and put on a little olive oil and that preserves them by keeping out the air which makes them spoil so they are not good. Keep them in a cool place, covered so they are not spoiled.

First we speak of the rose syrup that you have made. Take some of the infusion that you have made for the sugar laxative which is good and advantageous to use to make rose syrup.

Violet syrup is made in this way. Take 4 or 5 lb. of cistern water and one pound of clean violets without pedicels. I recommend the ones the color of peacock blue. Heat the water so that it is ready to boil but does not boil and put therein the violets and stir them well up and down and cover the vessel well and leave it in a warm place for 24 hours. The next morning, remove the violets and press them well in the press. Then reheat the infusion as you did at first and put in more fresh flowers as you did before. Do it in this way 4 or 5 times, cleansing them on the fire and filtering it and the violet syrup will be made.

Syrup of lavender. Take the pure flowers, cut them and grind them well and cover them with water because otherwise you will not extract juice. Cleanse them in the fire and then extract from them and it will be made. Preserve it like the others.

Syrup of 2 roots is not preserved because it does not last more than a month. Take roots of fennel and the roots of parsley. Cut them and boil them with water until it is reduced a third. Strain this and press it well and it will be made, syrup of 2 roots.

