Syrup of mint, fumitory, endive, chicory and sorrel. All are made of the appropriate juice and preserved in the way described above.

How to cook the syrups.

Take 2 egg whites and put them in the pot where you wish to cook the syrup and beat them very well so it is all converted to foam and the white does not run. Put therein 3 pounds of the juice of which you want to make the syrup and put in 1 ½ lb. of red sugar in little pieces and break it up with a spoon. Then put it on a low fire until the foam rises to a head and when it begins to want to boil, remove it from the fire and strain it in the pointed sacks described above. When it is all strained, put it again on the fire in the pot that has been cleaned. When it wants to boil, remove it from the fire and strain it one more time so it will be very clear and lustrous like its essence. Then put it again in the pot which should be well scrubbed and clean. Put it on the fire and boil it very slowly and remove the foam with the bottom of the spoon. Let this boil until it reduces at least 2/3 of the juice or make the test with the card to see if the drop is firm or not. Let it cook well because if it does not simmer and you keep it for a long time, with aging the sugar becomes candied which is not effective and good. Then when the syrup is cooked, put it in vitreous bottles to keep. You should know that to make the syrup, each pound of juice of the infusion needs a half pound of sugar and not less. Follow the rules in the way described above and all will come out well for you.

These are some of the virtues. First of the violet syrup. It acts well to cool the sharp and choleric humor, by extinguishing the fever of the choler, cooling and removing the thirst and soothing the chest wonderfully. Also it acts against dry cough and tightness in the chest.

Syrup of endive has the power to cool the sharp and biting choler, cools the burning, soothes and removes its sharpness, opens the obstruction of the liver, rectifying the illness.

Syrup of fumitory is a very universal remedy for every thick mucus or dry and salt adust and is suitable where there is scabies, serious illness, ringworm, impetigo, salt phlegm, lepra, canker or eczema and is a great medicine for the French sickness.

