Take 1 handful each of borage, parsley, beet, endive and celery, ½ handful each of chopped licorice, fresh anise, barley and currants, 1/3 of a bowl of red chick peas and 10 dry figs. Everything should be very clean. Put them together to boil in a clean pot with its cover very tight with 3 flasks of cistern water. Let it boil very slowly until it is reduced 2/3. Then strain it and press the herbs and everything under the press and extract all the substance. Then put it again on the fire and put therein 6 ounces of honey and 3 ounces of sugar from Saint Thomas and reboil a while until the foam has cleared. Remove it from the fire and when it is cool, place it in a glass bottle and it will be made, a very elegant beverage.

In the month of March or April, take 5 doses of this syrup in this way. That is, in the evening when you go to sleep, take 4 ounces warm, but in the evening eat very little and drink less. If you do not eat, it will be better for you. In the morning at daybreak take another dose of 6 ounces, warm in the form of a syrup. Continue this for 5 mornings. On the last morning first

take a cassia of 2 ½ ounces as a laxative diluted with boiled water or with milk whey about one hour before you eat a bowl of thin broth with 1 ounce of red sugar. Then dine and first eat two fresh eggs to put your stomach in order. Then eat well-cooked chicken or veal and for these 5 days keep yourself well governed. Do this once a year and you will keep yourself healthy, sound and lively and of good cheer. This has been tested repeatedly.

For the man to remain healthy all year.

Take 3 stalks of rue and 3 stalks of betony. Grind them and put them to soften in the evening in very good white wine. Drink 2 fingers of this every morning. Do this for all the month of May to the middle of June. Likewise this can be done with the juice of fumitory. Otherwise early in the morning you can eat 3 bits of the stalk of wormwood or of rue or of holy thistle or of horehound and you will stay healthy all the year. This has been tested.

Against the swelling of the veins that follows the drawing of blood.

Take equal amounts of rue, absinthe and barley and heat them well and fry them in a pan. Then reduce them to a poultice and bind it on the swollen area of the vein. Do this several times and you will be cured of the swelling. This is a useful secret.

Another if the vein may have been ulcerated by bleeding. Take the earthworms that live underground and clean them well with white wine. Fry them in oil and, as warm as you can stand, put them on and it will help you greatly. Also this may be of value in swelling of the nerves.

Nature shows by signs from outside the distress within.

It appears to me that nature, that is man, fails in three ways. The first way is through odors, that is when the odor of something malignant immediately occupies the principal members, that is the heart, the brain and the liver. These are the signs of pestilence, that is swelling of the glands in the emuntories of the principal members. When the heart is harmed the sign appears in the armpit. When the brain is harmed, the sign appears in the ears. When the liver is harmed, it appears in the right rib. When the spleen is harmed, it is in the left inguinal region. In addition some carbuncles come in other parts of the body and these occur when there is greater putrefaction and scorching of the humors in the body. When nature is strained too much to draw them out, carbuncles appear in the principal members. The chest shows the worst effect and this is because it is a sign that the humors are burnt up and putrefied around the region of the heart.

