This is the value of phlebotomy, that is of withdrawing blood. You should know that this reduction of blood has all these uses. First, it makes the mind pure and strong with a good memory, sharpens the senses, clears up the voice, sharpens the vision for one who has runny eyes, sets the hearing and the brain in order, improves the digestion, cleans out the bladder, calms stomach ulcers, drives out bad blood and saves the good, calms the sexual character, warms the marrow, removes bad humors, takes away sleep and administers to a healthy life for a long time, whence Avicenna said, in the fourth of the first 80 principles, phlebotomy is the universal evacuation of all the humors. He who is sick with fever through too much blood or putrefied blood, the blood should be reduced at once at any time, ordinarily during the half moon under the sign of Gemini. When there is transient fever from bad blood, the blood is removed from the middle vein and from the vein of the heart in the right arm in the summertime but in the winter from the left.

Another. Transient fever is one that lasts for the period of one day, more or less. Whoever has transient fever caused by heat or too much fasting, withdraw from the cephalic vein of either arm. Whoever is sick from a transient fever through fasting or coldness, watch when one withdraws his blood for he may become frantic. Withdraw from the vein of the head or the vein in the middle of the forehead. Whoever has a transient fever through debility, withdraw blood from the nose with a pig bristle. Whoever is sick with a transient fever through worms, withdraw blood from the vein that is between the ring finger and the little finger. In the man who is sick with quinsy, withdraw it from the cephalic vein of either arm. The man who is sick with transient fever as a result of an abcess, withdraw blood from the vein that comes from the little finger. Whoever is sick with transient fever from pleurisy, withdraw it from the vein of the heart in the direct way. That is, if the pleurisy is on the left side, it is withdrawn from the left and if it is on the right, it is withdrawn where the pain is, that is the right arm.

In the sick person with intermittent quotidian fever, that is which ceases for some space of time, blood is withdrawn from the middle vein. In the person sick with quotidian through one or the other phlegm, it is withdrawn from the vein in the right arm in the summertime and in the winter from the left. In the person sick from the salt phlegm with pruritis, it is taken out with cuppings on the legs and then cut. In the person sick with tertian fever, it is withdrawn from the basilic vein, that is from the vein of the liver in the right arm in the summertime and in the winter from the left. In the one sick with quartan fever, it is withdrawn from the salvatella vein of the left hand between the ring finger and the little finger. In the person sick with any other acute fever, it is withdrawn from the middle vein, that is the vein from the heart. In the one sick with any dropsy, it is withdrawn from the vein of the liver in the right arm in the summer and in the winter from the left. In the one sick with icterus, it is withdrawn from the basilic vein from either arm, either in summer or winter. In the one feverish from melancholy, insomnia and frenzy, it is withdrawn from the vein that is in the middle of the forehead. In the one sick through overheating of the liver, it is withdrawn from the basilic vein in the right arm. In the one sick through defect or impairment of the spleen, it is withdrawn from the salvatella vein of the left hand. In one sick through defect of the kidney or womb or bladder, it is withdrawn from the vein called the saphenous, that is the vein that is below the heel on the inside of either foot. In one sick through flatulence or bloat, it is withdrawn from the vein that is directed to the large toe of either foot. In the person sick in the lower parts, it is withdrawn from the saphenous vein on the inside of either foot. In one sick with sciatica, it is withdrawn from the saphenous vein above the foot in the ankle. In the one sick with gout, it is withdrawn from the saphenous and the basilic veins inside and above either foot.

The remedy against swelling of the vein after withdrawing blood. Take equal amounts of rue, absinthe and barley beaten together in a warm pan, and make a poultice and put it on the vein and soon you will cure it, through God's grace.

