Properties of the choleric nature. If choler is kindled in someoneIt makes him impetuous by nature.Whatever he wants to undertake,Whatever he desires, quicklyGrows to great importance to him.He has a strong and vigorous spiritFor everything. He can be generousBut only if it is not important.Immense astuteness in cheating othersRules such a nature. He gains his strengthBy helping himself and spending.Boldness and irritability mark him.He has little flesh and his limbs are slim.His complexion is yellow as saffron.

Properties of the melancholy nature. The melancholy humor is sadder than any other.It makes a man's nature depressed and lowBut very eager to acquire things.He is devoted to study and equipped for it.Sleep in such a humor strengthens his stepAnd in the evening he may wake up.He speaks always of things profoundThat he wants to put into effectAnd considers everything is a problem.More timid than a deer, and devious,He has plenty of avarice in his breast,And envy grows within him.His complexion is the color of earth.

Nature has 4 components: cold, dry, warm and humid.

The 4 elements from which the world is maintained have these components. Fire is warm and dry, air is warm and humid, water is cold and humid and earth is cold and dry. So are the bodies of persons and of animals that are on earth, and from these proceed the 4 humors. That is, choler is warm and dry, phlegm is cold and humid, blood is warm and humid, melancholia is cold and dry. Also the year is divided in 4 parts, that is, spring, summer, autumn and winter. Spring is  and humid like the blood, summer is warm and dry like choler, autumn is cold and dry like melancholia, winter is cold and humid like phlegm.

According to philosophy, spring begins on February 22 and ends on March 24. Summer begins on March 25 and ends on August 23. Autumn begins on August 24 and ends on November 24. Winter begins on November 25 and ends on February 21. Spring has 92 days, summer 91 days, autumn 92 days and winter 90 days. You should know that fire, summer and choler are of one and the same consitution. Water, phlegm and winter are of one constitution. Air, blood and spring are of one and the same constitution. Autumn, earth and melancholia are of the same constitution. Each of these observations, in truth, confirms the other, for the flesh and bone resemble the earth, the blood resembles water, the respiration the air, and heat the fire.

The 4 digestions of nature.

Note that these are the 4 digestions of nature that turn our food into the human body. Viz.

1. The first digestion is made in the stomach and there the food is cooked in the stomach and the substance of the food is sent to the liver through certain veins that transfer the nourishment.

2.The second digestion is made in the liver and the substance that the stomach has sent to the liver is converted into blood that the liver sends by the veins.

