3.The third digestion is carried out in the veins which are nourishing the limbs.

4.The fourth digestion is made in the limbs by the capillary veins.

1. The excess of the first digestion is the feces which nature sends to the bowels.

2. The excess of the second digestion is the urine which the liver sends to the kidneys. Then the kidneys distill it to the bladder through 2 pores, called the ureters, that are hung in the flesh.

3. The third excess of the digestion, which is made by the veins, is the sweat.

4. The excess of the fourth part of the digestion is the nails and the hair.

This is enough for you to know about the secrets of digestion..

Part of knowledge about the urine.

How to know the urine. First, know that the 2 things that give color to the urine are the natural warmth of the body and the coldness and the 2 things that give texture to the urine are the humidity of the body and the dryness or the heat. The heat gives it the white color and the humidity gives it thickness, that is the turbidity. The dryness gives it clarity and makes it clear. One should examine the urine well outside and in the urinal.

First, you should know well that if the urine is red and very vermillion and thick and not clear, this signifies that the blood is too abundant. If it is vermillion and clear or yellow, it signifies that there is too much heat. If it is white and thick and dark in color and more thick than very clear, it signifies that there is too much phlegm. If it is white and clear and transparent, that signifies that there is too much melancholia. If it is brown and clear, that is transparent, that signifies that the blood is overheated through too much heat and there is great debility. If it is green and transparent, that signifies that there is very great debility of spirit so the blood appears polluted.

Another way to know if any infirmity might be cured or not. Take the urine of the sick person and put on it a little milk from a woman. Add it very gently and if the milk goes to the bottom, the sick one will die. If the milk stays on top, he will be cured. This is a useful secret.

Another. Rub the soles of the feet with a little lard and then give the lard to a dog or a mastiff to eat. If he eats it willingly, soon the sick person will be cured. If the dog does not eat it at once, consider the person's cure doubtful. Try this and you will see the proof of it.

To cure a head quickly that has been broken through a fall or other blow, provided that it is not fatal.

When a person has fallen or has received a blow on the head and the head may be broken but the blow is not fatal, do this. First make a bandage with egg white and salt and soak a stupe in it and put it on the wound. If the blood continues to flow from the wound, put on another bandage after adding a little finely-ground soot. Wrap it well and let it stay on not less than 24 hours. If the damage is where there is hair, clip that first under the bandage. When you remove it, medicate only with rose oil and threads with a little cloth. Vz.

Note. Take warm rose oil and make the tents of fine threads and spot them with rose oil and put this tepid on the wound so it is well covered with the tent. Rub around the wound with a double layer of cloth and put it over the tent and then put on another dry cloth and bind it with a bandage and let it stay that way. Treat once or twice a day, according to how serious you think the wound is, because this rose oil rapidly removes the pain and soothes the sore and also cleans it. Do this for 3 or 4 days and not more. Then take some gold unguent and medicate with this, first making the tents only of thread and putting this unguent on the wound. Then put on a bandage with this unguent on it and rub around the wound with warm rose oil. Continue in this way until it is cured because this unguent makes the flesh grow and when the flesh is ready, do not put on another tent, but you can put on a cerate of red lead or other primary plaster, according to how it seems to you, and the wound or break on the head will be cured. The patient should take care of himself for 8 to 10 days and not drink wine and stay on a diet of bread and boiled water and, with the aid of God, soon he will be cured. It has been tested.

*Celestial water, very wonderful for preserving health for a long time.

Take 1 ounce each of nutmeg, cloves, galingale, cardamon, grains of paradise, cubebs, mace, cinnamon and ginger. Everything should be ground together finely in a mortar. Then take one siala of good brandy and with the above put it in the glass still and distill it with a slow fire. The water that distills is used for its power in place of balsams. It is powerful in all illnesses from humidity and repairs coldness and clears up vision because it draws into itself all the virtues of the herbs. It opens up all abcesses, internal and external, if it is put on the painful place. It makes the tongue eloquent, if seven drops are drunk with a cyathus of good white wine when going to sleep. It hardens and draws together mercury, giving up the incorporeal spirits. If you put oil in this water, it goes at once to the bottom. Also it cooks eggs and keeps meat and fish from putrefaction. It restores and clarifies turbid wine. It takes away cataracts in the eye and any red color. It removes marks from an alb. It sharpens the intellect and makes the memory good. When it is used to rub four times in 7 days for six months, it retains and preserves health. It removes pimples, boils and all spots on the body. It removes pain from the teeth and bad odor in the nostrils, gums and jaws. It restricts cold and humidity so it makes the speech fluent. Before this water is drunk it is necessary to prepare the pills written below in two months, that is in September and October. Take them on one day yes, the next no. Use equal amounts of fine rhubarb, hepatic aloe and agaric. Make the pills with water of marjoram and you will see a great miracle.

Very aromatic elixir of life to preserve health and youth and to eliminate bad humors.

