Take 1 ounce each of preparations of galingale, of ambergris, of marjoram, of roses from Abatos, of cinnamon, of orris root, of dill, of barley sugar, of cumin, of anise, Galen's tonic, manus christi, ½ ounce each of preparations of amber, of sweet musk and of diapliris with musk, 4 ounces of syrup of French lavender, 2 ounces of syrup of licorice, 1 ounce of theriac of Andromachus and 8 ounces of fine sugar. The confection must be made of all these things and do not exclude any of them. Everything should be well mixed and incorporated in a mortar. Then put it in a glass bottle that has a narrow mouth so it can be tightly closed. Then put in 5 lb. of the best brandy made from the best wine in a glass still so well that it is without any water. Then cover the mouth of the bottle well with lute of wisdom so that gases cannot come out. Put the bottle in the sun or in a warm place, agitating and moving the glass with the material inside 2 or 3 times every day. Continue this for a month and at the end of this time let it sit for 8 days so the matter remains at the bottom of the bottle because the water will have taken all the substance of these things and will be the color of gold. Empty out the clear water by tilting. In this clear portion put musk and ambergris, about 1 dram each, and 2 drams of rhubarb. These three things should be ground together and wrapped up in fine silk and suspended in this clear quintessence to aromatize it and so you will have a very perfect water and a very noble elixir of life to use for the defects of human nature caused by phlegm in both men and women. It greatly soothes old age and preserves youth.

Note that the use of this water or elixir does not need to be frequent. One who is past 30 years of age needs only to take a dose of 2 drams once a week with water of rosemary. One who is younger should take 1 dram at a time once a month with rose water and endive water. Also it has within it many other virtues as you will see for the other one which is written below. These both have been tested in the clinic in Bologna and in Lucca.

"

Elixir of life to preserve human nature following the method of the clinic in Bologna.

