Take 1 ounce each of ginger, cloves, mace, nutmeg, zedoary, galingale, long and round pepper, juniper berries, laurel berries, citron rind and melon rind, flowers and herb of sage, rosemary, fine marjoram, basil, round mint, pennyroyal, melissa, gentian, mountain mint, bishop's weed, aloe wood, lavender, elder flowers, white and vermilion roses, wild and cultivated cubebs, French lavender, cinnamon, cardamom, ground pine, germander, mastic, sweet flag, frankincense, grains of paradise, male incense, hepatic aloe, pine nuts, theriac, sweet almonds, pitted dates, dried sea grapes, dried ripe figs, seeds and flowers of dill, seeds of wormwood, mithridatum and rhubarb and 6 ounces of cleaned white honey. Then put therein fine sugar, twice as much or more than the above things. Be advised that all the herbs should be cut very finely and not ground and also all the roots, the bark, the dates and figs all should be cut and not ground. The raisins go in whole. All the spices should not be ground too finely and also the berries of juniper and laurel. All these things should be as fresh as possible and do not let them be gathered too long past the month of May. Put all these components together and incorporate all in 3 times as much brandy as the above things. The brandy should be distilled 5 times into a glass flask and made on a slow fire.

Then put everything together in a large glass flask and the flask should first be well sealed with lute of wisdom. Put it in the brick oven walled up with clay and with some ashes sifted within. Put on the condensing cap and a large receptacle below with all the joints sealed with pieces of dough and bound so that nothing can leak out of any crack because that would give forth all its virtue. Then make a fire below with burning charcoal. First make sure that the oven is well closed at the top of the oven. Heat the oven and the ash very slowly and maintain the fire always so it stays barely warm. The components that are in the flask will be distilled very slowly and a very clear and beautiful water will distill out. Be careful as you see the liquid begin to change color to another liquid that looks like rain water, that is not as beautiful, clear and lustrous as the first. As soon as this change appears, change to another receptacle and collect this.....

second distillation. Save the first one in a glass vessel and keep it well covered. The second liquid that comes out is not as perfect as the first and does not have as much virtue, except it makes the ladies beautiful. The second has the virtue that it removes all freckles and signs of other kinds and makes the skin very white and sweet-smelling. Accordingly this liquid is used by some great ladies and nobility such as princesses and queens. This is proof that it is better for this than all other things.

Take the first distillation and weigh it and take again as much brandy in weight as this and this is called the mother balsam. Then let the oven cool and remove the flask and empty out the contents and with great dexterity put it in a similar flask. If you are able to remove the dregs at the bottom without breaking it, this will be very good and useful. Then take the two liquids together and cover them well and it stay thus to decompose with the dregs for 2 whole days. Then put it on a bain marie in the way that you see in the drawing, with its cap and receptacle. Close the joints well so that nothing escapes, as is described above. Put two large straps under the bottom of the flask so it does not touch the bottom of the water bath and do this with great care. Make a fire of dry wood, very little at a time, so that it slowly comes to distill and the liquid will be truly more perfect because in distilling it with a little fire your work becomes more perfect. At first the liquid comes out most clear and lustrous with a delicate and comforting odor. Be warned that as you see the liquid come out with a change in color to rainwater, that is of a more gray color, at once remove the receptacle with its liquid and at once put under another to receive the second liquid and seal the joints well as before so that no gases escape. Hold this first water very dear. It is more valuable than so much gold and you will be told below of its virtues. Keep the second water in its place, well covered, because it matters if it evaporates. When you see the cap change to a color that resembles blood, change the receptacle one more time but be quick to go from one to the other and seal everything well as said above. The first and the second waters have few differences in their virtues. The third truly is the color of blood and also place it in a large glass bottle to preserve this.....

treasure because no finer secrets of greater worth and value can be found in this world. We will tell some of the virtues of the first, second and third waters. Viz.

1. Note that the first and the second waters have almost the same virtues but the first is more potent and of that we will tell first.

2. If you put a little on a fresh wound, it will not need any other medication but it will be healed in 24 hours, as long as the wound is not fatal.

3. Another. If one has some old sore, wherever it is, or if it is a canker or abcess or lupus or on a retracted nerve or on a bone or in an old sore or lepra or noli me tangere , it should be washed thoroughly with these 2 waters, 2 times a day and in 15 days it will be cured.

4. Another. If you will let a drop or a few drops fall on a carbuncle, in 3 hours or more the carbuncle will be destroyed and all poison will be gone.

5. Another. If anyone has sickness in the eyes, of whatever kind, by bathing the eyelids the tears will be dried as long as the eye is not destroyed. If a drop is put in the eye for 3 days, at the end of 3 to 9 days it will be cured and if it hurts a little that will not harm you.

6. Another. If a man has a stone in the bladder or in the kidneys or in the penis, he should drink one tablespoon of the water with half a glass of white wine or broth of red chick peas, but the water above is better alone, and in 2 hours or more the stone will be shattered, broken and splintered. Then you will urinate this in several little pieces and without any pain.

