7. Another. If someone has hemorrhoids, bathe them 2 or 3 times a day and in 3 days or more you will cure it.

8. Another. Similarly, in sickness of the womb, the woman should drink 1 dram with a little chicken broth or good wine and she will be freed quickly.

9. Another. If someone is feeling pain of any kind or has fallen, bathe the painful place repeatedly and in 3 hours it will be relieved. Also it cures scabies and ringworm.

10. Another. If a nerve has been drawn or indurated or twisted, it should be bathed 3 or 4 times with the water and at once it will be relaxed even if it was harder than a rope.

11. Another. It is powerful in a discharge from the genitals in a man or a woman when it is drunk with water of betony or of plantain.

12. Another. It removes every venom from toads, spiders and scorpions. When several drops of the warm water are put on the puncture, it will soon be cured.

13. Another. If someone has eaten poison of any kind, he should drink as much of this water as he can and soon he will be cured, if the sick person can drink a large quantity and is not disturbed until the poison is quenched and destroyed. This has been tested.

14. Another. It cures scrofulas. By drinking it and bathing the openings of the sores with it, it soon cures them. This has been tested.

15. Another. For broken bones, bathing the injured place with it removes the bones from the flesh without injury or pain and strengthens the flesh.

16. Another. It removes any deafness and distress of the ears, by wetting a little cotton wool and putting it in the ears. It may be better to use a feather to drop this water in the ear. If you want to mitigate its strength, combine it with oil of bitter almonds or with oil of camomile and at once it will help you hear.

17. Another. It is powerful in arthritic pain, that is in arthritic gout that comes from cold. Wet a cloth and put it on the sore place. Do this several times and soon you will cure it.

18. Another. It is powerful in stomach pain and restores the normal digestion when the top of the seriously dispeptic and upset stomach is bathed.

