Note well all the times and the requirements when you or others will be ready to make the above-described elixir of life. You will need a good hour to prepare the above items, especially the spices and all the other things, little by little, following the specifications for the dry things from the apothecary's shop. Arrange with the people who bring the roots, herbs, flowers and seeds, that all be brought at one time. Do as is described above that the spices should not be ground too finely and the herbs and roots should be cut minutely and not ground. Put the raisins in intact and cut the dates and figs. Everything should be well organized, that is laid out and put on a table and each one should be known by its place, as when electuaries ar made. Then stir everything together and put everything in the flask. If all the things are fresh you will extract more virtue and substance than if they are dry. Therefore I give you this good advice as a small gift.

Also I remind you that first you prepare all the pieces of equipment that are needed, such as the main brick oven with clay and the finely-sieved ashes to hold the flask and the flask sealed and dry and the glass free of gravel or little stones because that would make it easily broken, and the charcoal to make the fire. To do the cooking, prepare the water bath and the receptacle with 2 straps to suspend the flask so it does not touch the bottom. This is an ingenious way to hold the flask in the water so the flask is not rocked about. It needs to be steady and firm like other instruments of glass that are broken by moving. Prepare the cap and the receptacle and the other ampules made of heavy glass with cloths to tie around the joints of the cap and the receptacle. Have the wood dry and soft and make the fire low and moderate. Patience must govern you and it is your teacher. With the aid of God, all things will go well and they always go from well to better. This has been set up and prepared in the clinic at Bologna and has been made many times.

The virtues of celandine that in itself contains an elixir for mankind.

Take half a handful each of wormwood, anise, betony, basil, butcher's broom, mountain mint, sedge, cedar, sweet flag, flowers of camomile, gentian, galingale, St. John's wort, sea holly, lavender, mint, marjoram, Roman pellitory, pennyroyal, burnet saxifrage, pellitory of-the-wall, sage, bran dust, camel's hay, French lavender, escarole, savory, asparagus, spike lavender, bee orchid, tamarind, thyme, valerian and zedoary. Spices: 1 ounce each of white incense, mastic, cloves, cubebs, long pepper, tragacanth, cinnamon, cardamon and zinc carbonate, and 3 lb. each of fragrant white wine and white honey. First take the herb celandine with the root, stem, leaf, flower and seed in whatever quantity is needed to extract about 10 lb. with a flask and a half of water. Cut it minutely. It should be gathered it early in the morning during the half moon. Put it in a flask and put it under manure and let it stay warm for 20 days. Then remove it and distill the flask with its cover and its receptacle that has the joints well wrapped so that nothing escapes. Make the fire very low and it will distill for you a very clear and lustrous water. Then put this water in a flask and put therein the above spices, all made into powder, and the honey, wine and anise. Stopper it and put it in the sun for 10 days. Then put in all of the above herbs, flowers and roots, sliced and cut finely and let them stay thus with everything together fermenting for 2 whole days in the sun or on warm ashes. Then distill it with a very slow fire in a water bath with the cap and the receptacle and the joints closed with cloths and dough and set it up with bands so the flask stays steady in the water and does not move. When a third of this water has been distilled, watch it well and you will see the water change color. At once put a new receptacle to collect the second water and when you see that no more comes out by continuing the low fire, then put on another receptacle and increase the fire to lively. Oil colored red will come out. Put everything in its place in glass ampules that stay well sealed and save these for your needs. Below we will tell some of their virtues and some have been tested. Viz.

The first water is clear and lustrous and has the property that it is powerful in all infirmities of the human body, both warm and cold, which is in itself a secret of nature.

Another. One who drinks this water and washes all the body carefully will at once get rid of scabies and lepra, quickly and without doing anything else.

Another. It will soon cure one who has sickness within, that is distress of the heart and fainting.

Another. Drinking a little of it will cure one who has defect of the lungs or difficulty breathing.

Another. Washing a swollen face with it several times, firms up the face.

Another. It modifies the blood and gives great hope that soon one will be cured if one who is sick drinks this water for 3 mornings in the form of a warm syrup.

Another. If a man or woman will have washed the face and hands in the second celandine elixir and dried them and will drink ½ ounce in the morning in 2 fingers of malvasia or other very good wine, this will renew youth. If they are 60 or 70 years old, it will make them appear like 30 years. It augments the spirits, strengthens the nerves and increases the sperm.

Another. It is powerful in every problem with a nerve that may have been bruised or cut. Bathing the location several times heals rapidly all the defects of nerves.

Another. If someone has a cut in the eye or it is damaged from any problem and that causes any kind of illness, bathe it every morning and evening and soon it will be cured.

Another. Using the third distillation in every way saves one from all bad humors and especially from phlegm.

Another. It is powerful in the spasm of death when half a spoonful is given to drink and with bathing the wrists. It revives the person as soon as it is swallowed because it soothes the heart at once and rewarms it. If the elderly use this in a small amount, it removes the infirmity of old age. Bathing with this water several times will make you young and lengthen your life.

Another. It is powerful to heal old and recent sores and cankers, fistules and abcesses if they are internal. Drinking it breaks them open and heals them quickly.

Another. If a woman drinks it when she has difficulty in pregnancy or other internal or external distress and bathes the sore place she will soon be cured through God's grace.

Many other virtues are found in this that you will find yourself by experimenting. Keep to the rules described above in compounding all these things and their sequence and you will succeed well.

The herb holy thistle, that is the Turkish herb, and its virtues.

To begin with, eating the fresh herb cures the action of a recent poison.

