Another. Eating this herb cures headache and migraine. It restores the hearing of one who has lost it through sickness. It restores the memory and cures dizziness. It cures weak and paralyzed limbs. Eating it repeatedly cures the spleen. It breaks the stone. It cures bad breath caused by stomach problems. It heals catarrh. It helps in all distress of the stomach and headache. Cooking this herb with water and drinking this, heals all bad humors and removes them quickly.

Another. If the herb is dried in the shade and made into fine powder and put in fresh water and the eyes are washed with this, it cleanses them and restores them and cures cataracts and other impediments. Drinking this powder with broth in the morning on an empty stomach clears the throat and removes all the phlegm, stimulates the appetite, opens up the chest, destroys bad blood and keeps the good and removes every pain of the body. Drinking this powder boiled with wine makes you sweat and extracts every sickness. Take it before a fever comes and you will be cured. If one has become infected, put some of the powder on the infection and it will cure it. If you put it on a wound where there may be broken bone, it will draw it out without discomfort. The root removes pain in the teeth when it is held in the mouth. It is for women in parturition.

Another. Cook this herb in the urine of children and make suppositories of it. It cures every fall, plague, epilepsy and hip pains. The cotton fluff that is in the flower rapidly cures wounds without pain when it is put on them. Fill a little sack and put it on a cut and let it stay and it will cure it. The cotton fluff with the juice stops bleeding from the nose.

Note that this is a holy herb and brings health in many infirmities. The King of India sent seeds to the most holy Pope Martin as a most unusual gift. We have tested the herb and have found 72 virtues in it.

To distill herbs and flowers or whatever you wish in a bain marie with several decanters and with the philosopher's tower.

 In the first place you need to make an oven, that is the philosopher's tower, with its cover as you see in the figure. First in the design is the height, at least 2 arms high, more or less according to how it seems to you, made of bricks on edge or of paving tiles and mortar made of strong lime with powder of mastic, egg white and linseed oil. Incorporate everything well and make a good and strong plaster that has resistance to fire. Put the bricks on edge and join them well together, one with the other and tight. Make good plasterwork around the outside, well pressed and glazed so the water is not able to pass through. Also make good plasterwork inside. Inside the tower at the height of a palm from the bottom, put a graticule such as you see. It holds the charcoal that is put in the tower and it should be made finely of iron. Fill up the little tower with charcoal and put on its cover. Through the opening below begin the fire in the charcoal and this will go on burning little by little and the ashes will drop down through the graticule.

Then around the little tower, make a wall of a belt of bricks on end with the best plaster. On the inside around the tower there should be an opening at least half an arm's length and the tower should rise at least as much as a palm's width, more or less, above the container, according to how it seems to you. Plaster the container well....

both inside and out so that water standing in it cannot pass through, either out or in. The container must not slip past the ring under the little tower which is made with art and ingenuity and with very good plaster that holds in the fire that sits in the warm water, as you see. Keep in mind when you are making the container around the philosopher's tower that you will have it full of water and that it may also have 2 or 3 or more tubes, according to what you want because it can take as many as 4, as long as they can be accomodated around it. Fill the tower with charcoal from above so that there will not be too much air or the charcoal will burn too fast because there is too much venting below. Make the fire below with an oil lamp or with a little wood and soon it will be ignited and the ashes will fall down, little by little, dropping through the graticule and also the hot charcoal, bit by bit. This fire maintains the water always very hot. It will keep it always hot for all the tubs in which the flasks are placed, conducted through to them by tubes, as you see. The tubes stay continually in the water and because of the circulation they always stay very warm. By this conduction the water in the tubs is maintained very warm and by that steady warmth the flasks distill all that you put in. You will not do better in construction than what is told to you here and in the way that you see here in the drawing.

