Take 6 lb. of rose water, 3 lb. of orange flower water, 2 lb. of myrtle water, 1 ½ lb. of clover or lavender water, 1 lb. of spike lavender or basil water and ½ lb. of marjoram water. If you use waters distilled in the bain marie, they will always be better and more odorous than those distilled in lead, as has been said above. These are cleared in the sun in a glass vessel or in an oil jar that has been well cleaned inside. Put in the spices written below, that is 1 ounce each of fine cinnamon and orris root, 1 ½ ounces of solid storax, 2 ounces each of cloves and sandalwood, 2 ½ ounces each of benzoin gum and false cardamon or grains of paradise, 2 nutmegs, ½ ounce of mace and 2 drams of liquid storax. Take the cloves, the orris root and the benzoin gum and grind them minutely. Cut the sandalwood, the nutmegs and the storax as finely as you can. Leave the cloves whole. Put everything in the water and boil for one half hour, well covered, on the bain marie. Then remove it and leave it in the sun for 6 to 8 days and this will be your fragrant water, beautiful and good in all its qualities.

To make it more perfect and with softer odor, strain it finely to make it clear and limpid and put it in a glass flask because it keeps better well-closed. Put in 4 grains of musk, 3 grains of ambergris, 2 grains of civet and an amount of camphor the size of a bean. Grind everything well by itself with sugar and 2 drops of brandy from the third distillation. With this the musk, the ambergris, the civet and the camphor are ground with fine sugar and 2 or 3 drops of good oil or oil of sweet almonds. Otherwise, take 2 or 3 whole almonds, break them up, grind them and grind everything with this. Put everything in the flask with water and shake it well up and down so that everything is well incorporated. Cover it well and let it stay in the sun for at least 20 to 30 days and shake it upside down at least once a day. In this way it will become very perfect, with very great fragrance and it can be placed before any great prince or nobleman. If you want to use it turbid, let it stay in the flask, and if you would like it clear, strain with a fine cloth and you will have a clear beautiful and odorous water. This is called the Water of Angels or Imperial Water and it is at your discretion to make it good or not. The way is open to make it good and it is given to you as the best, with the least expense, and it will bring you honor and increase your purse and do good work for you.

Another kind of Water of Angels made in another way. Take 1 lb. each of the waters described above of leaves, powders and roots and that made of rose cakes, 2 lb. of rose water, 1 ½ lb. of orange flower water, 6 ounces of myrtle, 3 ounces each of clover and lavender and 2 ounces of spike lavender. Put them together in a flask and put therein these things, 1 ounce of benzoin gum, 1 ½ ounces of sandalwood, ½ ounce each of solid storax and aloe wood and 20 cloves. Everything should be coarsely broken up. Boil it in a bain marie for ½ hour. Then strain it so that it is clear and add 3 grains of musk, 2 grains of ambergris and 1 grain of civet, all ground in the way described above. Then put it again in the flask, well covered, on the bain marie for ½ hour but do not boil it at all. Then let it stay in the sun for 8 to 10 days and it will be made, fragrant, perfect, good and elegant Water of Angels.

Fragrant waters to make noble and elegant perfume.

Take a fragrant water composed of 2 lb. of rose cakes, 3 lb. of rose water, 1 lb. of clover water, 8 ounces of lavender water and 4 ounces of spike lavender water. Compound all of these together in a flask and you will have a simple and very odorous water.

