If you would like to add musk to it, first strain it carefully with fine linen cloth. I say arranged so it comes out clear and not turbid. Then put it in the same flask. Take 4 grains of musk from the Levant, not the imitation, because it is better than that from the west, and 2 grains of ambergris, ground finely, in the usual way with an amount of fine sugar the size of a bean that gives a certain grace that makes it incorporate at once all the other odors, and with 3 or 4 drops of good oil or oil from sweet almonds which you can make, or with 4 drops of brandy from the third distillation and not more. Put these with the water. Wash the mortar with this water and grind everything together. Stopper it and put it in the sun for 8 to 10 days and every day turn it upside down and you will have a water with very delightful odor. It is fit to appear before any noble person. It will be clear and lustrous and will always keep a good odor.

Another composition of fragrant water for perfume. Take 2 lb. of rose water, 1 lb. of water of musk roses distilled in glass on the bain marie, 3 lb. of water of orange flowers and 6 ounces of jasmine water, put together in a glass flask. Then put in 4 grains of musk and 2 grains of civet or ambergris, which is better to accompany the musk, and grind them with sugar in the usual way described above. Stopper it well and let it stay in the sun for 15 to 20 days and it will be made, odoriferous, good and perfect. It will pass any test and will have an agreeable odor.

Another way to prepare perfume. Take 4 lb. of rose water, 2 lb. of orange flower water, and 1 lb. of water of myrtle flowers. Put these in a flask and put in 3 grains each of musk and civet, 1 dram of powdered sedge and 2 drams of benzoin gum. Everything should be well ground as described above. Cover it and put it in the sun for 20 days and it will be made, a most odorous water. Never has there been such a fragrance that will bring you honor.

Another way to add musk to simple rose water. This also can be used to add musk to all other kinds of odorous waters, either simple or combination as described above. Take 8 lb. of rose water, 5 grains of musk, 8 cloves and 1 ounce of benzoin gum. Grind the musk in a mortar with as much fine sugar as a bean with 3 drops of almond oil or brandy and put all these in the water. If you do not wish to work with all of the water, take half with the mixture in it and boil it covered on a fire or on the bain marie for little more than ½ hour. Then when it is tepid add this to the remaining rose water and incorporate it well. Stopper it and leave it in the sun for 20 to 25 days and it will be made, odoriferous, noble and elegant. It can compare with the other noble and elegant fragrances.

Water of orange rind distilled in the sun.

 Take at least 10 oranges and remove the rind in 4 parts and cut away all that thick white that is on the inside. Do not take anything but the yellow peel if you can. Cut that into 2 or 3 or 4 little pieces and thread them on a little string, one next to the other. Put this string in a bowl or flask without a cover and adjust it so it does not touch the bottom or any side and fix the string in the top of the bowl in a way that it does not touch the side. Then cover it on top with a card and do it in a way that does not allow anything to escape. Put this bowl in the sun on some window that has the sun from morning to evening, if you can. It will distill the rind that is in the bowl and distill a clear water, I say most clear, and it will be very odorous and comforting to the mind with a most agreeable odor.

The way that you have made this you will be able to make others, as many as you wish. If by chance it is not distilled in one day, put it in the sun again for another day or more until the water is all distilled. You will know by this sign, when the rinds become black and dry as if they have been touched by fire. Remove it with care and empty the water into another vessel and keep it well closed. Little by little you will have uses for the water and save it as something dear. It has these properties and virtues, viz. Note that if you give a child, who may be ready to die from worms, 2 or more tepid ounces to drink, the child will soon recover and it kills the worms. This has been proved. Also it has a pleasing odor if a woman or a man will wash hands and face and let it dry. Take a little of this water in your hand and wash the face and let it dry by itself. You will smell an odor all day that will please you and will please anyone who smells the odor. If a woman frequently puts it on her flesh it will please her greatly and she will want to use no other to whiten it because it is very good for whitening the skin and especially that of the woman. This has also been tested.

You can distill in the sun in this way whatever you want, flowers such as jasmine and violets and pleasing herbs such as eyebright and lady's mantle, for water to be used in the eyes, and other pleasing things by your inventiveness. If you will follow the rules given above, all these will succeed and they will bring you honor for it.

Ordinary distilled waters and some of their tested virtues.

