 First do the distillation that you want of herbs, flowers and roots, distilled in a lead still as you see in the figure, or in a still made of terracotta, well fired inside and out that is used often and makes good waters, better than the lead still. But do not exclude distillation in glass and especially with the bain marie which is unique from all other distillations. Then there is distillation in the sun which is weak distillation that is used to make some water for the eyes or other such use. Because we are speaking of distillation in the lead still, we put in this figure so that you can see the way it is made and how the stills are placed. Viz.

Note that when you want to distill herbs make sure that all the herbs are mature, that is they have begun to flower. Collect them after the sun has dried the dew. By following this rule, all your waters will be preserved well and completely and they will last a long time. On the contrary, if you take them before they are mature and distill them, the waters will not last and soon are spoiled and the water becomes slimy and viscous. At that time you need to break it up and filter it or redistill it again. It is true that the water is not as perfect as it was at first, but it is good.

The virtues of some distilled waters.

First we will speak of water of couch grass which, when drunk in quantity, has the property of making worms burst and die. It opens blockage of the spleen, of the liver and of the lungs and stimulates urine when a glass is given to drink in the form of a syrup early in the morning. It has many other virtues and is especially advantageous to use for little children with worms and fever.

Another. Water of absinthe cleans the stomach, removes every fever and kills worms when it is drunk warm in the morning.

Another. Water of borage removes every problem of the head, clears up mucous discharge, makes the blood good, strengthens the heart and is very powerful in this when it is drunk early in the morning on an empty stomach.

Another. Water of violets removes every problem in the head, clears up mucous discharge, makes the blood good, eases the heart and aids the nerves when drunk with wine in the morning or any time.

Another. Water of fennel, drunk in the morning, soothes the stomach, clears the mind and removes flatulence. It takes away the pain and tearing and every cloudiness of the eyes when they are washed with this and when it is drunk in the morning.

Another. Water of eyebright opens the visual system and improves the sight, clears away any humors that come, cleanses the liver, the kidneys, the bladder and the intestine, improves the stomach when it is taken in the morning on an empty stomach and when the eyes are washed with it.

