First we will speak of the the rules and the way that has to be followed to make this brandy and of the vessel that is suitable for the distillation, because if you will do it in the way written below, it will carry within itself all the virtues written below because this is an elixir of life, to be compared with the best balsam or more in its virtues for the human body. If you know how to carry out the distillation you will never be a poor man. Note down the present method, viz.

The main thing that you have to do. Make a round vessel of clay as you see before you in the figure, not thicker of clay than a thumb with a retaining ring inside that is 2 fingers above the little opening below and the thickness of a thumb and the same depth outward. Then make a vessel of fine copper to the height of 2 or 3 fingers above the tower that can fit inside it and be well-sealed inside because it will be full of warm water. The flask will go inside it with its cover. Under it the lighted lamp is put in the opening with a piece of tile in front to close it. This burns night and day.

When all the above pieces of equipment have been made, prepare the wine. I say that you should take a red wine, not white, if you have it. If not, use the white but dark or red is always better. The wine that you want should be good and very fragrant and pure without water. The better it is, the better the brandy, more potent, fragrant and odorous. Therefore, take this wine and put it in the flask, half full or a little more and seal it well. Then put it to ferment, that is, prepare it in this way. Put it for 12 to 15 days in the center of warm ashes and every day add a little more warmth, always agitating the wine, moving it upside down. Do it always carefully so the flask does not break. If you do not want to leave it in ashes, put it in horse manure and let it stay in a warm place for 15 days because....

at the end of this time you will distill it. The better the wine, the more potent it is in everything such as odor, taste and its virtue is to be praised.

Then put the flask with wine into the warm copper vessel and put therein tepid water until the vessel is full and the flask fits well and does not move on any side. Do everything with dexterity. Then put the cap on the flask and bind around the joint, wrapping it with dough and fit it well so that nothing can get out or put other plaster around that is suitable to retain the gases so that none can escape. Fit its receptacle on securely and lute it well with either dough or clay so the gases are not able to escape. Then below put the lamp or other suitable light that will have the same effect as the lamp which should be large enough to hold at least one pound of oil and the wick or lighted part should be at least more or less equal in thickness to the little finger as it seems to you. Put it in the little window so the fire heats the bottom of the copper cauldron so it heats the water well. In this way the wine is distilled to make a perfect brandy. Then put a little tile in front of the opening of the lamp so that it closes but does not block the lamp or it could not burn, but the heat stays within. This will make the distillation very slow and this is the important rule of distilling brandy because too rapid distillation will not make perfect brandy and the body comes out mixed with the spirit. We have studied the separation of the spirit from the body and our studies showed that the distillation should be slow and the lamp should not be removed from below either day or night. Because it is needed, do not run out of oil so your work stays steadily warm and continues to distill. When you see the distillation change, remove the fire and let it cool well and handle it carefully so that you do not break the equipment.

Note that when you have done the first heating, you will have extracted all the spirit and nothing of the spirit remains in the body. Do the test in this way, viz. Take a little card and wet it in the distilled water from the bain marie, that is in the last that has seemed to you not as good as the first that was coming. Touch it to the fire and the water will burn but the card will remain wet. With the second distillation, wet the card and touch it to the fire. The water will burn and it will leave the card dry. If you do this for the third distillation, the water will burn and also the card at once. This is the sign that it is all spirit and nothing of the body is in it. Through the long distillation it has become all spirit, as you can see. Then the brandy has become all goodness. If you will have it more potent, you can distill it 4, 5, 6 or 7 times and it will be perfect and if you continue to 10 distillations, it adds little because much is lost but it will be the most perfect and best. I say it is the best elixir of life and compares with balsam in its properties.

