Note that the first distilled water is good to drink as something simple and pure. All those that follow from the other distillations are not good to drink undiluted because they could irritate internally and exhaust a man. They are good to bathe only externally and to treat....

all the infirmities of the human body, doing it in the way that will be described in full below of its virtues. It is true that little is available of this kind of brandy because it is too expensive, troublesome, laborious and vexatious to make. This is a product for great, noble and high-class persons who do not care about expense or labor and want it to be made and it costs what it is worth. This is enough to have said about this brandy which is made from the most perfect wine in the bain marie and is not as other brandies, usually made of putrid wine, that the grocers sell. At the end of this chapter, how to make brandy from poor wine will be described. The brandy described above is made only by our Reverend Priors of the Jesuati Friars. I say it is greatly superior and perfect because they use great care in extracting only the substance, so for drinking it has no equal. It is pure and without fault.

Note that when you need to change the flasks, always have one or 2 flasks ready with wine that has been fermented or distilled so that as soon as you have removed one flask from the fire, you have another prepared and immediately put it in the water bath and put in warm water so that it is soon heated hot with the lamp. In this way you will make your distillation quick and good. Throw away that remaining in the flask, for you have removed the substance of it and it is of no more value. It is called the first distillation. But do not throw away that remaining in the flask after the second, third and fourth or later distillations. These are good to put in a little bottle with vinegar because that makes the vinegar strong and potent and therefore do not throw it away. Also the remains of the wine are used especially for dying stamped leathers or cordovans when the wine is dark.

To begin the virtues of this brandy, or burning water, daily use of the first, second and third distillations is approved by many persons. The first distillation will burn but its fire does not consume or burn cloth but leaves it damp and wet. The second distillation will burn and does not consume cloth but leaves it dry and arid. The third distillation will burn and the cloth will be consumed entirely. The fourth distillation is very potent and strong. The more times the wine is distilled, the stronger and more potent it will be. So the seventh distillation will consume everything to which it is applied.

The virtue of the first distillation is that if you wash the face and nose three times and you put a little in the nose, it clears the passages and soothes the brain. It clears the sight and strengthens retracted nerves. Washing the exterior of the head improves memory and all the qualities of the spirit. If you put in any kind of spices that you would like, either the flowers or the herbs, chopped up, in 2 hours or more the brandy will draw out all the virtue and substance of the spices. You can give the clergy at table a wine spiced with cloves and sage and similar fragrances. When you have made up this water, put 3 or 4 drops in a glass of wine and it will give the taste of that which you have put in and it will keep its odor. It improves the appetite and soothes the stomach when taken in the morning and evening. It removes the phlegm that is in the opening of the stomach and removes the bad gas that comes either in the stomach or in the head. When it is taken twice a day with a small quantity of wine it soon restores the stomach.

