First, it cures all the aches which afflict our body, I say, if such afflictions are caused by cold humors. If the distress is internal, give the patient an amount to drink that will fill the shell of hazelnut, mixed in a glass of good white wine. If the distress is external, rub with this water mixed with wine as described. In the morning drink 2 or 3 drops mixed with white wine on an empty stomach, and do not exceed this measure or it will make the man too merry. Also it cures bad breath, that is the fetid odor that comes from the stomach. Also it cures the falling sickness when it is drunk as described above and is rubbed on the head.

Another. It is very powerful against the paralysis with tremor of the limbs by drinking it and rubbing it in the above way. Also if the infirm person holds a little cloth wet with this water on his tongue, it improves and gives back speech. Note that it does not have any effect on the natural infirmity except once in a while.

Another. Putting some of this water in grape must clears it up at once and makes it beautiful and clear.

Another. It is powerful against the sickness of stone when that is caused by cold humors, whether the stone is in the kidney or the bladder, if the water is drunk as described above.

Another. It is powerful against pain in the testicles that is caused by cold humors. Note that this water is of 2 kinds, that is simple and mixed. Simple is when it is not mixed with other things and must work alone, that is without wine or water to drink. This is the most inestimable of all medicines, the mother and the lady, which has marvelous effects against all the cold sufferings. In conclusion, this water cures all distress from cold as long as a man knows how to use its powers, because when it is brought near the fire it immediately burns. This is the measure and amount when you want to use it, take one dram up to 2, more or less, according to the patient's need.

Another. It is powerful against headache even if it be long-standing. It cleans the head of dandruff. It cures all the sores of scabies when the head is washed each day with this water. It gives great aid to the memory. It is powerful in that illness that people call lunacy when it is drunk as described and when the head is rubbed and it is smelled with the nose. If you will dissolve a little fine theriac in this water and take it in the morning on an empty stomach, 2 or 3 or more times, it will cure you completely and well.

Another. It is very powerful in the sickness of palsy when administered as described above. Washing with it heals the face and the limbs. It is powerful against paralysis of the tongue when it is drunk in the described way. Put on a wet cloth as described above and do it as many times as needed for health and you will be healed.

Another. It is powerful for those whose face is twisted by accident or by any unexpected harm such as falling. The face should be rubbed with this water and it should be given to drink in the above way and this will soon be cured.

Another. It is powerful against melancholy. Taking a half dram every morning on an empty stomach with a little good fragrant wine will greatly cheer up the person.

Another. It is powerful in asthma, drunk with a decoction of figs and licorice.

Another. It is powerful against phlegmatic, flatulant or melancholic pain of the stomach.

Another. It is more powerful against blockage of the liver and the kidneys than any other medicine.

Another. It is powerful against painful colic coming from phlegmatic humors and flatulence when it is drunk and used to make suppositories. .

