When this water is distilled in the way above, you will see a very clear, white and noble water with not a few virtues. But you should know that the first water distilled from the first vapor is very lively and much more precious than the subsequent ones and is better in every good way. If the distillation is repeated many times it will be more powerful. The more times you distill it, the more you will lose because some consumed by evaporation. That is to say, from a large container or a barrel of wine, the first distillation extracts only a fourth or fifth part. It is very true that the power is increased by repeated distillations, as the philosophers say who were the first inventors to find the method and the rules to make it in the way described above. The first doctrine was obtained as a revelation from the Angel called Raphael, that is the Healer from God, whose water works many marvels. You should know that of ten measures that you distill, it is usual to get out a tenth part or a little more. It is true that if the wine is very strong and lively and is distilled in the way described above, it will be twice that or a fifth part and that would be a good amount from the first distillation of the wine. Then if you distill a second time, for every 2 measures you put in to distill, you will get out one measure or half the amount you put in to distill. If you distill one more time the part that you have extracted in the second distillation and distill it well a third time, from 5 measures you will get out 4. If you distill the fourth time in good form you will extract the same amount that you put in the still or a little less. If you want to come to peak perfection, you will distill the fifth, sixth or seventh time and time after time you will drop in amount as you change from one vessel to the other in the distillation. In the seventh distillation the water is called perfect because it does things that are very wonderful and worthwhile. The tenth distillation, that little which is gathered, is called most perfect because it ennobles and cleanses all things.

First. Because of the great effort and expense, for ordinary medication when the brandy made in the way described, the dose is one dram up to two or more, according to the state of the patient.

2. Another. It is so powerful that if fur, hair, linen or wool cloth are rubbed with it and brought near to the fire or to a burning candle, the wet thing bursts into flame without being consumed, and this happens to any other material. It is a marvelous thing that the water burns and not the thing bathed in this water. Using this water keeps gray hair in abeyance.

3. Another. If the egg of a hen is put in this water it is soon cooked and the yolk of an egg, put in the water, is immediately hardened.

4. Another. If herbs or other such things are placed in this water, if such a water is wanted, it will take on the odor of the things placed in it.

5. Another. Putting a little of this water in a cask of red or white wine that is weak makes it become much more lively than it was at first and increases its potency. For this reason the taverns, that is the hosts, may gain by buying wine of little strength and making it strong, lively and potent with this water.

6. Another. If the wine in a bottle has a bad taste or is spoiled, put in a little of this brandy at your discretion. Then beat it well with a stick so that it foams and you will repair the wine and remove any problem in a way so that it can be sold as good.

7. Another. If by chance there is one who has taken in any way a cold venom such as that of the scorpion or other animal, this brandy removes the poison by its fire and heat and removes the bad effects of the coldness and cures the poisoned man.

8. Another. If one drinks a little of this brandy, it at once strengthens all the limbs and makes them very vigorous. It cheers up the person and enlivens the heart and results in good breath.

9. Another. If one has cold in the head or in the stomach and suffers from a violent or occasional discharge from the head and has phlegm or melancholy, drinking a little at a time and repeatedly cleans the head and the eyes and the stomach, expands the chest and removes the humid cough, rewarms the body and cleanses it of phlegm and of any other coldness, by which it invigorates all the sick places of the body and rewarms all the cold.

10. Another. Drinking a little of this brandy restores every element of the body, external and internal, and improves the memory. When one drinks and smells it, the memory is well preserved.

