11. Another. Drinking some and putting it on the eyes dispels, dries up and removes cloudiness and spots and cataract and haze and all other defects of the eyes externally and transforms all the described defects to good condition. It heals all the pains in the eyes, internally as well as externally and heals, supports and bestows the power of seeing and gives back health when it is drunk and used to bathe the eyes and especially when the distress has been caused by cold. Also, it dries up tears when the eye is rinsed out and a drop is put in the corner of the eye. It will dry the eye and support it and remove the tears. If the eyelids may be everted, it corrects that and reduces the irritation of the eyes.

12. Another. It is very powerful in mitigating toothache if that is caused by phlegmatic humor or if any worm developed there. One should know that the upper teeth are cured by way of the brain and the lower teeth are cured by way of the stomach. In a short time it will cure and will support the gums.

13. Another. This brandy is powerful to relax all contracted limbs and it supports and heals them, whether it is the feet or hands and even the movements of the tongue.

14. Another. It heals canker and the fistula which is called ' noli-me-tangere ' and similar infirmities and problems.

15. Another. It is powerful in every illness of the raging gout caused by cold humor.

16. Another. It cures quartan malaria when it is drunk repeatedly on the day of the fever, a half hour before the onset.

17. Another. It cures chronic and stubborn scabies when the head is washed frequently. It cures ringworm. Wash repeatedly with tepid brandy.

18. Another. It cures dropsy when it is drunk repeatedly and the infirm should use food that is more dry than wet and well-salted and use enough cumin. The amount is half a glass or less each time and do not drink other water or broth.

19. Another. It cures the vitiated womb of the woman and strengthens it. It heals and consolidates putrid and non putrid wounds well.

20. Another. If you will put raw or cooked meat in this brandy and likewise raw or cooked fish, they will never be spoiled and will be preserved well. Beyond the things already mentioned through the grace of our Lord, Jesus Christ, it offers many other things useful for human nature.

Note that the first distillation is good and the second better and the third is the best. If you wish to make the test, take a chicken plucked and cleaned inside and scalded so hot that it hurts the hand. Then wet it well with this brandy that is warm, inside and out, 3 or 4 times. Then leave it in the sun for 2 or 3 hours and it will be preserved for 10 years and never be spoiled. You can do the same with any other thing that is soon spoiled and it will always be preserved and good.

To distill wine to make brandy for drinking and bathing with some of its tested virtues.

To distill every kind of wine, good or bad, and to make brandy of one, two, three or more distillations, according to what you want to do, you need the instruments that you see. First you make a pot of copper in 3 pieces well soldered and joined together and well fastened and well welded with very good tin inside and out if that can be done. This pot is in the form that you see with a tube well fastened together and soldered inside and out so that no gases can escape. Place the tube in the part above to put in wine or brandy and another length that comes out of the oven in the part below which serves to draw out the wine that is at the bottom and also the water when there is no more spirit in it. Close this from above very well and firmly so you are able to overcome the danger that boiling or other obstacles may cause, because all the material that is within may come out with force. So make a good stopper of tow from above so that no drops or material can cause the problem.

Wall the pot inside the oven as shown here so that the tube is clear. Make it fit in a way that it holds the heat well and make a space below to place the fire with its chimney in front and with a little opening behind to give it a little vent for a flow of air. When it begins to boil make the fire low, that is to say two sticks in a cross so that the distillation is very slow.

Then make a coil or twist of copper or of lead, but it is better of copper, soldered with silver in the way that you see so its mouth receives that of the cap. It should be well fastened with cloth and strong plaster that does not fear heat or water and so it cannot ever leak air because all the good gas may be lost. Be advised that above that place you should make drops of cold water fall because.....

that greatly aids in recovering the spirits that are coming out in that place and they are quickly condensed. The water in the box is not warmed much because the spirits come out more easily and without difficulty.

Then you fit the coil in a box or other container to hold water. The coil should be under water and the water always cold. The gases should be transformed in the part below the water because the coil above the water always stays warmer than that below. The gases are converted by the cold to a liquid which issues from the end of the coil out of the box. See that the connection there is well closed with plaster and plugged so that the water does not get in. In this way the brandy will come out and put a flask or receptacle to collect the distilled brandy. Keep it well covered with a cloth so that the odor does not evaporate because that is the great virtue of its substance.

