Note that you can make a belt of lead in a spiral or snail in the way that you see here in the figure with 4 to 6 turns and about the thickness of a thumb. It is provided with 4 rods that hold it in place, well tied so that it will always be firm, and soldered to hold it right, as you see. Put this in a large vat or in a half barrel which should always be....

full and cold. The end of the coil extends out of the vat in a suitable way so that with good plaster and tow the water cannot exit. Use either of these two, whichever is turned more easily for you, because both work and have the same effect. Also if either kind of spiral is made so there are 4 turns, either lead or copper is very good and useful. But be careful that the spiral does not have some fissure that would do harm because the water could enter and will do you no good and all the work will be gone for that boiling. Save the distilled brandy as described above in a vessel or cask that is well sealed. You can distill it the second time whenever you want because in this form it will last for a year. It is better preserved in one boiling than in two. It is not possible to keep the second boiling a long time because much of the delicacy will be lost and it will never be as good at the end as it was at first.

When you put the wine in the pot always make the pot more than half full but not too much more, so in the first boiling the wine does not jump up in the cap and that distilling will not be good. After the first boiling, reduce the fire a little each time, as is said above, and keep it maintained so that it never fails. When you want to change the wine, remove the fire from below so that there is no obstacle for the pot. As you distill the wine, take a measure of the brandy that is coming from the distillation and when it seems to you that the taste is not as good and it does not have the odor of brandy, throw it out for it is not good any more.

When you do the second distillation use the same test and furthermore drop a little on your arm. If it does not sting there is no more spirit in it and if you see that it burns, let it stay longer. When it has no more spirit, remove it from the fire and throw it away and put the other in, little by little, until you finish the work you have begun. It is very true that the dregs of wine have uses. They tan leather to make a dark color. The base of the second distillation and the third are used to put in bottles of vinegar because they reinforce the vinegar marvelously and maintain it.

Note that the first brandy that comes from the second distillation is always stronger and more potent than all the others that come out and you are advised to keep it always separate. Again I remind you to keep it closed all the time with wax and covered with good parchment so that nothing can evaporate, for if the odor leaves it has no more power.

Note that if you distill from good, great and aromatic red wine, it will make lively and aromatic brandy. If you make it from bad, spoiled and turbid wine as long as the bad is not strong and if the wine itself was good and aromatic before it went bad, it will make good brandy, lively and aromatic when distilled in the way described. If you follow this method you will get good results.

Note that the first water is much used with ground spices added and mixed with the second water, but it is not worth anything to drink. If the second distillation is drunk it results in many good cures, the applications of which you will learn below with its weights, measures, tests and quality that expert philosophers have discovered and have put to use as medicine to treat many kinds of erythema and this has been published in many volumes. Below we will tell of its virtues, weights and carats and how valuable it is for the human body.

Note the strengths of the brandy described above. The first thing is to recognize and know if it is good to drink or not. When you have made the second distillation, wet a little parchment and touch it to the fire. If the parchment remains wet afterward, this brandy is good to drink and it is from 15 to 16 carats. This applies from the first that issues out to the last. If you wet the parchment in the brandy from the third distillation, the brandy all burns and leaves the parchment dry. Such brandy is not good to drink because it has reached from 18 up to 24 carats, beginning with the first brandy that comes out of this third boiling until the last drop. This is known as the fiery brandy which is not good to drink because drinking this brandy, unlike that from the second distillation, burns the liver and the interior and dries up the blood so very soon it will make you die. Be advised to use this for rubbing and for wetting and to make other applications but do not drink it, unless you wish to drink 3 or 4 drops in a glass of wine or with water for some specific infirmity, as described below.

Of the many tested virtues of this brandy, I say the first distillation is good to drink when it is made of the best red wine and it does not disturb anything in our bodies. The second brandy is that which has reached 16 carats. I tell you that if you drink this early in the morning, it breaks the choler in the stomach. One may have a stomach impeded by phlegm or by cold humors or may have bloating from flatulence and that may make the stomach acid and the food in it. This acidification is called burning in the stomach. When this impediment comes to you after a meal you should drink as much as fits in a walnut shell. In a quarter of an hour, drink another little amount and do this 2 or 3 times. This saves the food in the stomach so that it is not spoiled in acid and also improves the digestion. Also it is very powerful when there is pain in the top of the stomach and in the arch of the chest or behind a nipple or in the middle of the chest. This distress comes in the greater part from bloat that presses the chest so strongly that in a few hours it causes a spasm and such an infirmity develops in a short time. To cure it rapidly, drink at least an ounce and a half or more early in the morning in the space of an hour and it will be very useful and helpful to you.

If you take 3 ounces of this brandy and 2 ounces of rose honey and incorporate them together in a bottle and drink one ounce of this as soon as you get out of bed, there will be none of the great distress of the stomach nor the great dullness of the head. Continue with this beverage because it does not work very quickly. In this method the liver and blood will not be harmed and it will not cause any other little problem. It repairs and puts in order all the bad dispositions of the stomach that hurt you in various ways and it will make you happy, give you a good stomach, increase your appetite and always support the food in the stomach. Take it even before meals and then the food will never upset you. Use it when you need it and you will see the proof. I can prove all of this to you because I have found that in the summer this with rose honey soon makes well those who have trouble with the stomach. This beverage can also be used by women who can partake of it without any concern. And this.....

beverage is very useful. It purifies the eye of any impediment and does many more marvelous things that I do not describe about this infirmity. Especially it resolves the flatulence that causes dangerous spasmodic pains and makes them go away through the mouth. It breaks down the flatulence into belches and the more it makes you belch, that is a sign that it is working well.

Also it is very powerful in toothache when the problem comes from cold rheum and from coldness. Hold it in the mouth on the sore side until it does not have any more taste or odor. Then spit it out and take some more so that it draws out that mucous discharge well. If you want to cure this, when you go to sleep in the evening, bathe the cheek, the forehead and the ear on the side where the pain is. Also do this in the morning and soon it will lift your pain and you will be cured because this brandy marvelously strengthens sick flesh that is bothered by pain. The flesh becomes better and is rapidly cured. Use this with confidence that you will gain honor from it.

