When you have a cask of wine that has become cloudy, take one egg for each barrel of wine and ½ ounce each of saccharine alum, ground glass and marble powder and incorporate everything until it makes a mass that sticks together. Then distemper it with a little brandy from the third distillation. Then put this material in the cask of cloudy wine that is not too full and stir with wine well with a stick. Otherwise transfer the wine to another vessel that has a good odor and put in this composition and incorporate it well. Cover it and let it rest for 3 or 4 days and you will find it clear and beautiful and drinkable. Also if you take some unripe cherries and put them in the wine, usually it will be changed and become clear and beautiful.

Wine that has lost its fragrance and has soured. Take some clean wax and make a covered box that is long and has an opening above and fill it with good honey and plug it so the honey cannot get out and tie it around with a ribbon and put it in the cask of wine that has become sour to the depth of a palm from the bottom. Hold it from above for 4 to 6 days. Then test it and it will be nearly restored as long as the wine does not enter where the honey is. This has been proved.

Another to make wine return that has turned sour. Take a stick of willow large enough so that it enters from above and goes the depth of a palm from the bottom and tie it from an opening in the top of the cask. Make several holes around the stick that do not go through and fill them with honey and powdered sugar and fix it in a way that it cannot get out nor the wine enter. Bind them around with a little cloth and let it stay at rest for 3 or 4 days. Then test the wine. It will have returned enough and it will be good to drink.

Another for wine that has gone sour. Take several leeks and dry them in the oven with a slow fire and powder them and put them in a little sack of clean linen. Put this in the middle of the wine so that it does not touch the bottom and leave it for 3 days. Then test the wine and if this by itself has removed much of the odor, remove the sack and the wine will be restored. If not, leave the sack in so that the wine will soon be restored so you will be able to drink it. Also when the wine is in the cask, put in a few ashes made from clematis and the wine will never become sour.

To make wine last all year without spoiling.

