Take a barrel of good, unwatered wine and leave it in the sun for 10 to 15 days and every morning refill it and put in 3 or 4 pounds of roses and it will become very strong. This has been tested.

Another way to strengthen vinegar. Take a flask of wine and boil it and quench in it a piece of steel that has been heated red-hot. Do this 3 or 4 times and do it on a Friday for 4 to 6 Fridays and put this wine in the other above and soon it will become very strong.

Another to strengthen vinegar. Take a mezo quartiolo of nuts that are good to eat and roast them. When they are well-roasted and hot, put them at once into the vessel with the vinegar, and at once seal it and leave it for 2 days. Test it and if you want it stronger, do the same again in the same way. Put in 2 ounces of powdered Roman pellitory roots and it will become very strong so it will please you.

Another to strengthen vinegar. Take 1 ounce each of pepper, ginger and cinnamon, all in powder. Then take a glass of very strong vinegar and take the center of a loaf of bread warm from the oven and at once put it to soak in this vinegar with the spices. Do this so that all the spices enter into the bread. Then dry it in the oven but so it does not brown. Then make all into fine powder and put it in your cask and it will reinforce the vinegar. Do this test: put a little in a glass of wine and at once it will become strong vinegar.

Another to make strong vinegar rapidly. Take a large pot and fill it with good wine and seal it with parchment. Boil it in water in a tub of water on a bain marie for an hour or more. Then let it cool in the water and uncover it and it will have become strong vinegar.

Another to make vinegar. Take a bowl of barley that is very clean and boil it in a pot of good wine for an hour. When it is cool, strain it and the next day it will have become strong vinegar. Do this whenever you want it.

Another to strengthen vinegar. Put in the cask through the top 8 to 10 crayfish cooked and well salted, strung on a string and fastened to the bottom of a stick of medlar which should stay in the wine with the crayfish about 4 fingers from the bottom. In a few days it will become very strong. This has been tested many times.

To remove infected nails quickly.

Take equal amounts of Greek pitch and fat and mix them together and make an unguent. Then clean the bad nails and put on this unguent. Use it continually until the decay has gone away and the nails are removed without pain. They will return smooth and good in a few days. This has been proved.

To remove corns between the fingers or wherever they may be and to destroy the root.

Take wall pepper or house leek and remove the top surface of the cuticle and put that between the fingers on the corns for 6 to 8 days and they will go away and you will not feel it. If these corns are so resistant that they will not go away, use this other remedy. Take some of the above herb and grind it and put it together with a little dried rock alum and incorporate well. Then shave the wart closely to where it begins to soften. Then wet little cloths and put them on it, keeping them fresh. Within 8 to 10 days it will go away and it will not grow again in that place. Be confident because this has been tested many times.

Another to remove corns and the root. Take 2 ounces of rose oil and 1 ounce each of clean wax, verdigris and white lead, ½ ounce of sublimate and 2 drams of dried rock alum. Chop up everything well and make an unguent of everything heated on a little fire. Soften the corn in warm water and shave it very closely. Then make a little plaster and put it on the corn. By continuing this it will soon disappear and will return no more.

*Another. Take ground glass, yeast and mother's milk and make a little plaster and put it on the corn. If you continue this it will go away.

Another. Soften the corn and cut it well until the blood comes. Make a little plaster of leather with fresh wax. If that is left on the corn it soon destroys the root and in a few days it is cured. This has been tested.

Another to cure a corn quickly. Take 3 leaves of sage, 3 peppercorns, 3 grains of salt and 3 cloves of garlic. Grind everything together and make a plaster and put it on the corn repeatedly so that it is continually on it. See if each day you can cut it off, little by little, and it will be shriveling so that you not aware of it because the root comes little by little to be cut. In this way you will soon be cured.

Another to remove corns and break them up. Take 1 ounce of turpentine, 2 drams of powder of chantarelle mushrooms, 1 1/2 ounces of pine resin and ½ ounce of clear juniper gum. Dissolve all the gums in the turpentine. Then put in the mushroom powder and incorporate everything together. Then make little plasters of leather and put them on the corns that first have been cut. By continuing this, they will soon go away. I say that the root will come out and you will soon be cured. If this unguent burns you too much, put on this other unguent. Take ½ ounce of gum ammoniac, 2 drams of orpiment and 3 drams of verdigris. First dissolve the gum ammoniac with strong vinegar and mix it with the other things that have been made into fine powder and add ½ ounce of turpentine and it will be made. Make it as a little plaster and put it on the corn or the wart. By continuing this, it will soon go away.

To remove warts quickly with the roots and also to help with corns.

Take 6 ounces each of saltpeter, Roman vitriol and verdigris, 3 ounces of saccharine alum and 1 ounce of quicklime. Make a fine powder of each one by itself and then incorporate together. Then distill them in a glass still and have the fire lively so that the gas and the body all rise at once. Keep the first water that comes out by itself because it is milder than the second which is a little more lively. You want to bathe the place of wart or corn with that repeatedly. It will soon be dried up and go away. This has been shown.

If you cut a little of the wart and put on powdered spurge mixed with strong lye and oil of tartar, it will soon go away and will not return.

Wet the wart with the water that drips from grape vines. Then trim the wart and wash only the wart repeatedly and it will disappear rapidly.

Put on tar and pitch and chantarelle mushrooms in equal amounts made into powder. The root of the wart will soon go away.

Take ground glass and wash it and incorporate it with mother's milk and with a little yeast from wheat and in this way make a plaster. Put it on in the evening when you go to bed. Do this several times and soon you will be cured. This is more powerful for corns than for warts.

Another to remove warts. Take 1 ounce each of German vitriol and saltpeter and 2 ounces of rock alum. Boil everything in water until it reduces 1/3. Then bathe several times where the warts are and soon they will go away. When you wet them it should be warm.

Grind ordinary porcelain between 2 lodestones and put it on the wart. The wart will soon go away by itself.

Take some leaves of fern and make them into juice and wet the warts repeatedly wherever they are and they will go away.

Cut the warts until they are just a little bloody and cut off the head of a lizard and put it on. By rubbing on that blood 3 or 4 times you will be cured and the wart will go away.

Another. Take some mullein flowers and celandine flowers and grind them together between 2 stones. Rub the warts well with this and soon they will disappear so you will not see them.

Grind the lungs of a sheep and with this liquor rub the warts several times and they will go away.

*For the warts that come on the hands. Take roots of plantain and grind them firmly and mix with strong vinegar and rub well and you will be freed.

*Another. Put the seed of henbane on a coal in the fire and receive the smoke on the hands and the wart will open up. Then put the hands in warm water so that it opens up the pores and keep them in the water. Do this several times and it will be cured.

*Two ounces of ammonium chloride by itself alone will remove warts.

To remove warts or corns quickly with acqua forte. 

Take 2 lb. of strong ashes of Turkey oak, 1 lb. of litharge, 6 ounces each of quicklime and Roman vitriol, 8 jugs of the lye that is the master ingredient from which soap is made, strong enough to float a chicken egg, and 2 drams of ammonium chloride. Everything that can be ground, should be finely ground. Put everything together in the master ingredient and boil it on a slow fire until all that remains is one jug of material or a little more, and it will be made. Save this material in a flask well-closed to keep out the air that would make it lose strength. Wet the warts or corns 2 times a day with this composition and all will disappear from the body. It removes hair that will not easily regrow. This has been tested many times.

Another to remove warts so they will not return. First you need to have a little gold, that is a scudo or a ring without a stone or a little piece of gold. Heat it until it is red hot and with this burn the wart well. If you do not have gold, do it with red-hot iron or also with a burning ember or coal. Afterward rub it or bathe it with strong lye. Do this 3 times in 3 days or all 3 times in one day. You can be certain that the warts will all go away.

Another to remove warts. Take the root of horseradish for eating or a radish root that is large and strong. Hollow it on one side or around the crown and dig this out so you can use it as a cover. Then fill the hollow with ordinary salt, well-ground, and put on the cover. Put it in a bowl or plate, cover it and put it in a humid place for one night. In the morning you will find some water drawn out into the bowl from the horseradish. The water will be salty and have the power of the root. Use this water to wet some cloths and put them on the warts. In 3 or 4 days the warts will be dry. Then you can lift them out with the finger. If they have left a large opening, put thereon the gold unguent that makes flesh grow in cavities. Likewise you can bathe warts in the above water and that also cures them rapidly. If you do not have the large horseradish, it does not matter. Take some of the roots, even though they are little, cut them into fine slices and make layer on layer with ground salt in a bowl. Keep it humidified and it will make the water in the same way. This is also good but the first is better. Also this water helps considerably to remove deafness.

Another to remove warts with salt. Take as many grains of salt as you have warts on the body. That is, take grains of salt as thick or high or dark or white or pointed as the height and thickness and color of the wart. Then say 3 Pater Noster with the Ave Maria to the honor of God and the Holy Trinity. Do this early in the morning and wet the salt with saliva that will be taken up by the wart. Rub the warts very well. Gather all the grains of salt that you have used to rub on the warts onto parchment and throw this in the center of the fire. The warts will disappear quickly so you do not feel them diminish. In 8 to 10 days the warts will be gone. Do this 3 mornings in a row.

Another to remove warts. Take water of mullein distilled in glass and wet the warts. Then put on flowers of mullein crushed between 2 rocks and soon the warts will go away.

Make ash of the stems of bryony and make juice of its leaves and the leaves of mullein and of its flowers and make an unguent with the ashes. Rub the warts and they will go away quickly.

Take the bile of eels and cut away the warts or corns until blood appears. Rub and they will go away soon.

Most of the recipes above have been tested and are true.

*To make every kind of wart go away, especially on the penis. Take finely-ground orpiment and put it in a little vial. Hold it over lighted coals and it will become liquid. Hold it until it is not all dried and not browned, so it becomes the color of rubies. Handle it in such a way that you take the amount that you wish for your needs and grind it finely. Then have water of rock alum and wet the warts with this. Put on the powder 2 times a day and in 3 days they will go away.

To have and maintain a good foot for walking.

Take the herb called hound's tongue and put it under the soles of the feet so that it touches the flesh. Then put on your shoes and walk and the soles of the feet will nevermore be painful as long as you keep some of this herb or leaves of hound's tongue under the soles of the feet. First, the day before you want to walk, bathe the feet with this: take some roots of rosemary and cut them finely and boil them in strong vinegar for a little. Then wash your feet with this vinegar and let them dry thus. In the morning put on your shoes with these leaves and you will have a foot as strong for walking as a horn. Especially use this bath to wash them each time and it will make the flesh hard. This is a good secret for the wayfarer.

Another against sweating of the feet. Take equal amounts of dried rock alum and yellow litharge in powder and put them in the shoe. Put the foot in bare and your foot will not sweat as much.

So a man may go securely on a dangerous journey.

