We pray. “Sweetest Lord Jesus Christ, son of the living God, you answered the Jews who wanted to seize you, 'I am he.' Then these Jews went away into the earth. So from that hour they were not able to harm you. Just as I believe and confess this to be true, so, most gracious Lord, Jesus Christ, now and always may you think me worthy to guard me from enemies who would harm me and may you turn them from anger and any evil they may want to do. May I follow in the way of peace and security. In praise and glory the name of guardian is blessed. World without end, Amen. + + + .” Say this every day and carry it with you.

Prayer to entreat the grace of God and of the Madonna. 'Cross + of Christ be with me. Cross of Christ is always worshipped. Cross of Christ is hope for safety. Cross of Christ is above all, even the sword. Cross of Christ + surmounts the bonds of death. Cross of Christ, Jesus is for me a weapon of hope. Cross of Christ + is my protection. Cross of Christ delivers me from all evil through the divine grace of the Cross and it is my salvation in all journeys. Cross of Christ take away, away all evil from me. Cross of Christ save me from all the adversity of the world. Cross + of Christ, Jesus save me. May the ancient enemy not see me. May he disappear with this sign of the cross. May all wickedness flee far off from this sign. May it be powerful over all wickedness. Amen.'

Prayer against all dangers of the world.

Jesus passed through the multitude unharmed. Through the sign of the cross free us, our God, from our enemies. Mary, Mother of grace, Mother of mercy, protect us from enemies and support us in the hour of death. Through the Virgin Mother may God pardon us at judgment. Angel Raphael, who was with Tobias, be with us always on our way. We take refuge under your protection. Holy Mother of God do not despise our entreaty in need. Ever glorious and kind Maiden free us from all dangers. The flesh was made word and it dwells in us. I give you my peace. I leave behind peace to you. Your heart should not be disturbed nor should it fear. Trust that I ordered the world'. Through Christ our Lord. Amen. + + +.'

Most devout prayer.

'O gracious Jesus through your infinite mercy you are to me creator, redemptor and savior. Therefore, gracious Jesus, through you I am created, through you I am redeemed. O gracious Jesus who created me, I ask your kindness to me so your work may not be lost. I ask, seek, desire and hope that you may not destroy what you have made. Omnipotent divinity, O gracious Jesus, recall what you are and do not reflect on what I am. O gracious Jesus, do not reflect on my weakness nor forget your good. O gracious Jesus if I have committed that for which you ought to condemn me, do not give me up for I can be saved. If, after justice, you wish to condemn me, O gracious Jesus, I call on your most excellent mercy that stands above judgment. Therefore I seek pity for me according to your great mercy. Through Jesus Christ, our Lord.'

Prayer to bring health.

