'Jesus was seized without being angered, Jesus was bound without sinning. So as Jesus was bound hand and foot, the heart that has suffered holds me in these deeds and words. + + +.' Carry this with you.

'Powerful God, Tetragrammaton , O admired divinity, O ineffable deity, O undivided love, O one true unity of three parts, I, unworthy sinner, entreat you, O highest God who created all from nothing. You set the bounds of the lasting sea beyond which one cannot go and from the four elements formed your creatures. I beg that in this night in such an hour I may see the true vision and all that my soul desires toward you. I stand before the angels of God, the elect of God, I beg you in the name of God, Adonay + Elyson + Athanathos + Otheos, + that the judge of life may accept my petition. Amen. Through Christ, our Lord. Amen.'

To dry up sweating and clean the skin under the arms or wherever you wish and it will give you a good odor.

Take as much yellow litharge as you wish, in very fine powder. The finer it is the better and the more perfect effect it has when you sweat all over the body and especially under the arms where that annoying bad odor develops and also on the chest and between the thighs. Take a little of this powder on the tips of 2 fingers and rub under the arms where the skin is wet or on other places and soon it will be dried up and will nevermore have that bad odor, because that odor develops as the sweat comes out. It dries and clings and covers the skin and as it is reheated it always gives out a bad odor. That is what makes a man develop a bad odor. When you are sweating and use the above-described powder, it causes the sweat to dry up and cleanses the skin and gives you a good odor and does not stain your clothing. This is a very good and true secret. By using it you will be very content because you will nevermore notice a bad odor.

Another to stop sweating of the feet and the hands and to remove the bad odor quickly. Take 6 ounces each of limestone and rock alum and one handful each of leaves of cypress, of tamarisk and of myrtle. Boil everything together in a pail of leached wood ashes or strong lye until it reduces a third. Then wash the soles of the feet and also the hands and the feet, the sweating of which causes the bad odor. Continue this 2 or 3 times a week and in a short time you will be free without any harm and with no more bad odor.

A gambler does not play any more.

