When a mother who is very zealous of the honor of her son and her husband sees the wealth of the house go for gambling and, at the end of her years, go to the game, I say she ought to be provided with a secret when it is known. The secret is this. Take some thread left over when the cloths are sewed around a dead man. Have this thread blessed. Then put one or two stitches in each of his clothes, such as in his shirt, doublet, coat, stockings, cloak and cap. When he changes clothing, make therein these little stitches so that he does not know it. You should know that, little by little, this man will lose the desire to gamble and he will become worried and will not want to gamble. This is true. He will not want to gamble, provided that he does not know the secret. It has been tested.

Prayer to say in the evening before the crucifix.

First say 3 Pater Noster and 3 Ave Maria for three evenings on your bare knees. Viz. 'Omnipotent, everlasting God, mystery of mysteries, who revealed mysteries to the first man, who revealed the sacrifice to Abel and promised the mysteries to Noah. You revealed the future to John, the Evangelist, and showed it to Peter in discourse. You showed Helen, mother of Constantine, where the cross was concealed. I beseech you through your blessed Virgin Mary and through your blessed apostles and your holy angels that in this night you make plain to me a vision so I may see a true vision of the way that you wish me to have in view and to know if it is mine to follow good or ill. But if it is mine to follow good, make me see fields of flowers, beautiful fruit ready to fall. It it is not mine to follow the true way, make it your grace that I see burning fire and running water to overwhelm me but yet cannot hurt me. Send your light and your truth to lead me to your holy mountain and your temple. The truth has risen on earth and the justice of heaven is forseen.' Say this with devotion for three evenings and it will help you achieve your goal.

The wolf has many medicinal powers, I say when it is dead, not alive. These have been tested.

These are from the book of nature. First we will speak of the head of the wolf that should be suspended in your house or kept in your possession. No serpent will be able to enter.

Another. It is so powerful that if any merchant or other person will bury the head of the wolf with its mouth open underground or under his shop or stall at the entrance, all his merchandise will sell well and always from good to better.

