Another. The bile of the wolf together with rose oil helps the eyelashes when it is rubbed on them warm. Also it is powerful against muscle spasms. If you carry it near the center of the pain, you will be well satisfied.

Another. The powdered lung of the wolf, given to drink with white wine, is effective for those who have an illness in the chest and who cannot raise their arms.

Another. Eating the spleen of the wolf, either male or female, is effective against drunkenness.

Another. The intestine of the wolf is double and large. Clean it and wash it well and at the end wash it with strong vinegar and salt. Then inflate it and hang it up near to the road so that it dries well or put it in the oven and it will not have a bad odor although it may smell like a wild deer. Save it in a box with 4 to 6 tips of wormwood so you can use it for all you needs and it will never become spoiled. This is powerful for pain in the sides and in the distress of colic. Bind it around on the bare flesh where the pain is felt. Let it stay until your flesh heats the wolf intestine and the distress in the side goes away. Soon you will urinate and will feel better, through the grace of God. If you may be subject to this infirmity, wear a belt of intestine for a whole month and you will never have pain in the side. I say on bare flesh. This has been tested many times.

If you bind it on the body of an animal that you think may have pain, leave it for all of a day or a night and, with the aid of God, the animal will be cured. When it urinates it is freed and cured. If a bone is found in the intestine of the wolf, that is good against toothache. Hold it in the mouth if you can. Also if you spread out the intestine of the wolf over a doorway, wherever it is, neither cow, nor horse, nor mule, nor ass will pass under it.

Another. The flesh of the wolf, cooked and eaten, heals wild behavior and dropsy wonderfully and also may cure quartan fever.

Another. The flesh of the wolf has the same medicinal powers as that of the fox. Take the meat and brine it well so it takes up the salt. Then wash it with vinegar or wine. Put it to dry in the shade and when it is very dry, save it in a dry place for your needs, from which God guard you. When a large beast has fallen ill, ox, cow, mule, horse, mare, ass or other animal that has the serious illness of urinating blood or other pains, do this at once. Take some of the meat of the wolf and as much as of a fox, cut it finely and grind about a bowlful well. Boil it in 2 jugs of good white wine for a half hour. Remove it from the fire and let it cool until you can bear it on your finger. Then have a funnel of horn and with dexterity pour it down the throat with force. Do this in the morning and the evening. If the illness is recent, only for one day, it will be cured rapidly. Then give the animal its bran mash to drink with wheat meal and tepid water. Be quick to give this medicine because if you should be negligent, the beast will die because the sickness may send it in 3 days. The flesh of the wolf is not good for anything except the rump at the rear. Do not touch the remainder for it will make you ill.

Another, a beverage for similar animals and a good remedy. Take 1 ½ jugs of good white wine, 3 ounces of good theriac and 1 lb. of male pork lard that is old and crush it finely. Take 1 lb. of finely-ground marble and incorporate everything together and put it on the fire to boil a little until the lard is melted. Remove it and let it cool and when you can bear to put your finger in it, then pour it down the throat with the funnel using force as described above. Do this 2 or 3 times. If, at the end of 3 days, the animal lives, you have won. Do not let it drink cold water and keep it warm with a good stable. Keep it away from other animals so they do not catch the illness because it is easily caught. This has been tested many times in large animals. Especially if you see that an animal does not eat, suspect a similar illness and at once use the remedy of the above medicine because in 2 days it may become clear that the animal cannot survive because the blood is too contaminated. That contaminated blood goes to the heart and soon it will die. Always keep to the rump of the flesh of the wolf and the fox for this kind of sickness.

Another. The fat of the wolf. If you rub a stick of the tree that is called holly with this fat and put it in the evening in the middle of the room, all the fleas that are there will jump on it. You will be able to kill all those that stay stuck on it and you will have your revenge.

Another. The bone of the wolf that is in the shin, that is between the two bones, is called the nut. That is what you want. Dry it and wash it well and clean and put it in a pot when you want to boil something on the fire. If you make a good fire under that pot it will never boil over because of the effect of that bone.

Another. The white dung of the wolf is powerful against the distress of colic and also helps in schilencia when it is given with warm wine.

Another. The member or penis of the wolf. Dry it in the oven and make fine powder in any way. Give half a spoonful to drink in 2 or 3 fingers of warm white wine to a woman who suffers from problems with pregnancy and soon she will be cured and not have more trouble.

Another. The fur of the wolf from the palpebra of the eyes and the fur that is under the beard and the powdered penis described above, all dried in the oven and made into powder and given to a man or to a woman to eat, when they do not know it, will increase loving.

Another. The bladder of the wolf. Dry it and make powder of it and incorporate this with soot or cobweb that is above the smoke in the chimney. Mix everything with egg yolk and water and make it in the form of a liquid unguent and put it on the face and you will not be recognized.

Another. The skin of the wolf helps considerably the women who are not able to give birth. Put it on the back here and there on bare flesh, that is with the fur outside, and soon she will give birth. Also if it is worn on the back one will never develop lice.

Another. If you tack the tail of the wolf behind the door of the stable the livestock will never enter until you remove it. Also if you tack this tail in your room in front of or on a window that is open to the air, flies will never enter the place where it is suspended.

This is enough of the value of the wolf.

The horse, ox or other animal that urinates blood. This occurs in bovine animals from overheating and from bad food.

First, when you see an animal walk with slow steps or weakness, consider well its urination. If it urinates any bit or drops of blood and if it does not eat in its usual way, when you see these obvious and manifest signs, do not be slow if you wish your horse, ox, cow or other animal to recover. At once make this medicine with the herbs written below. Do not be negligent and have the greatest solicitude because it is important. Viz.

Take one handful each of horehound, wormwood, rue and holy thistle, cut them finely and boil them in 3 jugs of white wine until it is reduced 1/3. Put in 2 heads of garlic, cut up, and one half bowl of very fine soot and boil everything. Then let it cool a while. Make a funnel of horn and push it down the throat all at once with the herbs in. Use this medicine in the morning and evening for 2 days and in 3 hours give tepid bran mash to drink with a fistful of wheat meal. Do not let them touch cold water for 3 days. Note that this medicine is the one that is used to purify the gall bladder and heal it, because this infirmity develops only when the gall bladder is expanded in the body and contaminates all the viscera and the interior. It is caused by some herb that they have eaten which has made the gall bladder overflow. Everything is mended by the action of the above herbs which are opposed to such an infirmity. With good care the animal will soon be cured.

Note that the sickness of urinating blood is called the sickness of anticor that might soon pass to the head in 3 or 4 days and the animal will die of it. If you make this medicine do not let 2 days pass because you will have difficulty in restoring it to health. You should know that this secret is rare among townsmen who laugh at giving any drench in this illness and few animals escape it. If you will be solicitous and make the above medicine, rest assured that every beast that has such a sickness will soon be cured, through God's grace. This has been tested many times. The same day that the animal has taken the medicine, it will begin to eat and to stay up on its feet. Keep it warm and with a good bed and a warm stall and separate from others and, with the aid of God, it will be cured and will recuperate.

Another for the horse or other animal that has bloody urine. Say this prayer 3 mornings in a row with the Pater Noster and the Ave Maria and do nothing else. Viz. 'In the name of the Father, + Son + and Holy Spirit, Amen. I conjure you through the living God, through the true God, through the holy God, through holy Mary, Mother of our God, Jesus Christ, that you do not stay in this animal, that you go out from bone to flesh, from flesh to skin, from skin to fur and that the fur falls to the earth and the sea opens and receives the sickness.' Make over the animal the sign of the holy cross in the name of the Father, + Son + and Holy Spirit, Amen. Keep the animal in a warm stall with a good bed underneath and a cover on its back. With the aid of God, soon it will be cured.

Horse or other animal that has colic pain or aliaci .

Take 3 spikes of rye, that is of beaten straw, and put them in a cross in this form + and hold them in your hand and rub the sick animal several times, back and forth, under the body, beginning near the testicles and ending at the foreleg. Do this up to the spur vein and when you have done one side, do the other and rub on the largest vein you can feel. Do this same rubbing in any animal that you think has the pains. While you do this rubbing, say the Pater Noster with the Ave Maria. Then say this prayer, twice a day, morning and evening, for 3 days in a row and, with the aid of God, soon the animal will be cured. This has been tested. Viz.

