'Saint Martin on a journey met a servant maid, a gentle husband, a sour wife, a soft sack and thin straw. Out of this body this illness should go. I pray to God and Saint Martin to give me this grace that by touching this beast this pain will go. So be it.' Make the sign of the cross. I want you to know this prayer because it is appropriate to the pain of the horse. Saint Martin was on a journey and arrived very weary in the evening at the house of a countryman and asked for lodging. The countryman was pleased but the wife grumbled. The countryman ordered that he should be given a bed to sleep in but the wife did not want it and she gave a sack to her housemaid to give to the pilgrim so that he could sleep in a corner. The servant, moved to compassion, put him in a corner in a tub where there was a little straw. So he placed himself on the straw and the sack was soft enough and so Saint Martin stayed there. In the morning his host wanted to ride and went to his horse but he saw that his horse was sick with pain and he gave up his trip. On going to the house he found the pilgrim who was shaking with cold. He asked the reason and Saint Martin told him all. The man was very disturbed about his wife and was going to rebuke her but the pilgrim comforted him. He told the pilgrim that his horse had pains and took the pilgrim to the stall and asked his name and his country and the pilgrim told him this, that he should take 3 spikes of straw and rub them on the body of the horse and say 'Out of the charity of Saint Martin for the housemaid, kind husband, bitter wife, soft sack and little straw, this sickness will go out of this body.' He said this and the horse at once got up on its feet and the pilgrim immediately vanished. This treasure remains for this good man from the mouth of Saint Martin.

Another for a horse that has pain in the body. Take 1 handful each of the herb savin and camomile flowers and ½ ounce of ground cumin and boil everything in 2 jugs of good white wine until it reduces 1/3, with the herbs cut minutely. When it is tepid, put it down the throat by force with a funnel of horn. Then take 1 handful of the herb savin, cut finely, and give it to eat with bran and in 3 hours give warm bran mash to drink. Keep the horse as warm as you can. Then take 2 handfuls of the herb ground pine, cut finely, and fry it slowly in a pan with ordinary oil. Then rub it, very warm, on the kidney and the flanks. Do this 2 times a day and soon, through God's grace, it will cure. This is a rare secret and has been tested many times.

Another to free an animal quickly that has pain. Give the sick animal the root of wild cucumber to eat and it will at once be cured. Also if you say these words 3 times while touching the body or saying it in the right ear, it will be cured at once. Viz. 'When Christ was born all pain was cured. Flee pain. Flee pain + because the Lord pursues you.' At once, through God's grace, the horse will be freed.

