Another to cure a horse rapidly that is cold. Take 1 handful of finely-cut agrimony and half a handful of laurel berries made into fine powder and give it to the sick horse to eat. Then give the horse white liquid, that is bran mash, to drink. After you give it this to drink, put in its mouth a piece of withe in the form of a bit smeared with laurel oil. Then when the horse has drunk, make it walk a little with its blanket. Then lead it into its stall and keep it warm and soon it will be cured. It needs good care, as is said above.

So your horse will run better than all the others and will defeat them in a race, be advised that when he begins to run, say these words and do not say any other. ' Christus abiel. Christus abiel. Christus abieli .' Say nothing more and it will run better than all the others. This has been shown in Barbary.

To cure a horse quickly or other beast that is sick from small or large worms or is upset by worms in the body.

Take white bread of wheat cut in slices and toast it well and take 7 or 8 ounces of sublimate and put everything in a stone mortar and grind it together and make very fine powder. Save this for your needs. The animal that is sick from worms has boils on the body, first forming on the chest, the neck, the forelegs and under the body and then forming on all the body. If you want to cure the animal rapidly do it this way. Take one of those pimples or boils with 2 fingers and cut it with the tip of a little knife or with a lancet or other tip that cuts well. Press out the bad infection that is inside. Then put this powder with care in each of the places that you open and when it is open be sure you press out the wormy infection well and put therein some of this powder because this infection has all the poison of the worm and it flows out between the flesh and the skin and makes this little button and this needs to be killed. Put the powder in all the places that you open and in those that are open if you want to keep the animal that has this sickness from worms. They will be cured soon because this has been tested many times. This secret has come from Germany where the persons who have this secret keep it to themselves to sell you the powder but not the secret and so keep it secret.

Another to cure sickness from worms in another way if the animal is valuable. Go and gather a plant of teasel, that is the wild teasel that is used to teasle cloth. Gather it in the morning before the sun rises and during the half moon. Open it in the middle and you will find in some of them some worm-like creatures of which you will take 3 and put them in a linen cloth. Touch them to the neck of the animal and say 3 Pater Noster with 3 Ave Maria. Then take 3 silver coins and hold them in a cross in your hand and mark all the sick places. Then attach the cross of coins to the neck. Do this marking for 3 mornings in a row before the sun rises and say over the coins a mass of Saint Job before you attach them to the neck of the animal. At the end of 3 days remove the coins and do nothing more. But the worms will stay attached to the neck for several days although they may be dead. The animal will get better little by little and if you need the animal soon with the aid of God it will be cured. Keep it separate from the other horses.

Another to cure horses, cattle or other animals from sickness from worms. Take half a handful of sweet blue violets with the root and clean them in a pan and say over them a mass of Saint Alo . Then say 3 Pater Noster with 3 Ave Maria in honor and reverence to God and the Holy Trinity and attach it to the neck of the animal with a cord of 3 strong threads and make 3 knots with 3 crosses and soon it will cure the animal of worms. This has been tested.

Another to cure sickness from worms in a horse if the animal is needed. Learn by heart or write these four words on a card and touch all the small boils from the worm with this card, one by one. Say the words and make the sign of the cross on all you see. Do this early in the morning for three mornings in a row. Then attach this prayer to the neck of the horse and leave it so and soon the horse will be cured. This has been proved. Viz. 'In the name of God and of the Holy Monsignor Lotto + alubia + gio + distoria + etrinis. ' Do not do anything else for this is sufficient for you.

Another for the horse that suffers from worms in the body. Take 3 lb. of lard from a male pig, cut it finely and melt it. Then put in 2 ounces of powdered hepatic aloe and 1 ½ ounces of lupin flour and incorporate these well together. When it is not too hot, pour it down the throat. Use your ingenuity and the funnel of horn. Do it through gentleness or by force. Make the beast walk for a while and soon it will be cured of worms. Alternatively do it this other way. Give this medicine by mouth, that is, take 2 ounces each of hepatic aloe and powdered peach leaves and 1 ½ ounces each of juice of wormwood and heart of peach stones......

Pulverize everything finely and put it in about a pint of white wine. Heat it and put it down the mouth of the horse and make it walk. But before you give this medicine, take 2 bowls of milk or water sweetened with honey and give it to the horse to drink in the morning using the horn funnel. All the worms in the body will go into the stomach. Then the next morning give the above medicine after which you will find all the worms knotted in the stomach and all dead because this bitter medicine opposes the first liquid with which the worms were soaked and now they all burst. When they are in such quantity in the body of the animal, it is always thin even though it eats enough because the worms eat all the substance. Then they leave the stomach and go in the tail and it makes the animals itch and they scratch on the wall or wherever they can. As the above beverages coagulate the worms, the animal will be freed of this infirmity and in a short time will grow fat. This has been tested.

Another to cure the horse that has the above worms in the body. Take one scruple of yellow sulfur and make it into powder and give it with bran to eat early in the morning and do not give anything to drink for 2 hours. Do this for 3 mornings. Give this prescription in the winter if you can and not in summer when the sulfur is warming. Soon, with God's grace, the horse will be cured of worms. This has been tested.

To cure the horse that has a sickness on the back or sore on the front shoulder.

Take 1 ounce each of hepatic aloe and incense, and 2 ounces of quicklime and make these into fine powder. Take 1 handful each of agrimony and scabiosa and dry them in the shade and make fine powder and ½ ounce of ground pepper. Take as much honey as you need to mix up the powders to make little balls. Dry them but not in the sun. Then grind them into powder and save this for your needs. When your horse has any galls on the back or abcess in the shoulder, wash the sore well with warm wine in which has been boiled ½ ounce of ground pepper and 2 ounces of salt and wash the sore well. Then put on the above powder and leave it and protect it so the tail does not swat it. This cleans and draws the flesh together. Then when the flesh is nearly drawn together, take some old shoes that have been baked and a little of the powdered agrimony and scabiosa mixed with 3 times as much powder of the old shoes. Do not put on more of the first powder but put on this which soon makes new skin and the horse will be cured. This medicine has been used many times.

Alternatively, make this other medicine when the illness is on the ribs. Take a piece of lard and fry it in a pan and drop it in very strong vinegar. When you want to medicate, warm the vinegar and lard and take this warm in your hand and rub the sore well. Do this several times and it will soon be cured. Also if it is not split open, rub the swelling or cyst very well and it will be cured.

The horse that has swelling around the ankles and in the feet.

Take 1 lb. of tragacanth and put it to soak in very strong vinegar, covered, for 3 days in a warm place. Then grind it in a mortar until it becomes in the form of an unguent and save it in a cool place. It will be somewhat liquid. Then in the morning and evening, rub the sore swelling or spine, pulling it well with the hands while you rub around the pastern of the ankle. Do this several times and it will soon be cured, as was a horse of great value that had swelling of both pasterns and was treated with this remedy.

The horse that has ulcerated legs from overheating or overcooling or from too much exertion.

