Take 1 lb. each of tar and Greek pitch, 1 ½ lb. each of pitch and naval pitch, 3 ounces each of turpentine and cumin and 2 ounces of linseed flour. All these things go together on the fire to incorporate in a pot or in a pan. First, if the legs of the horse are ulcerated and the horse has become stiff-legged and the skin is stuck to the bones and the skin does not move with your finger and the horse does not want to eat, at once draw blood from the spur vein and collect that blood and put it in this poultice. When you have made the poultice, spread it very warm on the croup and over the chest and on the shoulders and the joints of the knees. Rub very well against the hair so that it gets on the skin. Then make the horse walk as much as you can and give it broad beans to eat and give it bran mash in the morning and evening for 2 or 3 days. At the end of 20 to 30 days, heat some lye and wash it, wetting the poultice first until it is softened. Then remove it with the curry comb and you will have cured your horse of this bad sickness and it will be beautiful and comely as at first.

The horse that has swollen glands behind the ear, that is under the jaw.

When your horse has become sick so that it does not want to eat and the hide stays attached to the back and the ears and nose are cold and it repeatedly lies down willingly, then feel behind the jaw, under the ear, in the joint of the neck and the head under the mane of the head. Take the skin in your 2 fingers and directly underneath you will feel some grains under the fingers in this condition. In that place clean off a little of the hair. Then with pincers take up the skin in that place but do not squeeze it. With the point of a very sharp knife or other pointed iron, open the skin until you can put in the tip of your finger. Remove all these white granules that you see. When you have removed these well and cleaned it, put in a little ground salt and rub around with a little oil and leave it so. Do not do anything else. If it needs it, do it on both sides. Then put a green twig of a fig tree in the mouth and make it chew that for a while. Then give it a few beans or other legumes to eat and make it walk for 2 or 3 hours with a blanket on its back. Keep it warm in its stall with a good bed and with bran mash and no cold water for 3 days. Let it rest for 4 or 5 days and, with the aid of God, you will have won and the horse will soon be cured of the swollen glands.

To cure the horse rapidly that has a spot in the eyes.

Take 3 ounces of intact rock alum and 2 glasses of strong vinegar and boil it very slowly in a little pot until the vinegar is consumed. Take the residue and make very fine powder and take the amount of a lentil of this powder and with a stick or feather put it in the eye of the horse where there is a spot. Do this twice a day and soon it will be cured. The spot will resolve little by little. This powder is good also in humans who have a spot in the eye or other cloudiness that hides the light. The eye may be restored by putting in it an amount the size of half a lentil. It is true that this stings a little but that soon disappears. By treating it several times it soon will dry up and in a short time you will see. This is a valuable secret.

The horse that does not let itself be shod willingly or is restive.

 Bind your horse tightly, approach it gently and say in its right ear, 'Remember the Lord will provide and all gentleness is from him. + Gaspar takes you. + Baldassar binds you. + Melchior leads you. + Amen +. Bring peace + forever +. May there be peace today. Christ was born and also bound. + Peace to me, peace to you. So be it today.' Then make 3 signs of the cross, + + + and in the name of God the horse will let itself be shod and it will make no disturbance and you will be very satisfied. Also the horse will want you and where you go it will follow. If you say these words in the ear, the horse will stand quietly and let itself be shod. These are, 'Stay, stay, Moses holds you, horse. Abraham takes you, Isaac binds you and Jacob tames you + .' Make the sign of the cross and the horse will stay very quiet. Say it 2 or 3 times and you will see this result.

