Another for the horse that has been shod incorrectly. Take the bad foot and first mark around the foot and remove the nail that you think is causing the problem. Do it with dexterity and do not let the foot touch the ground but directly under that leg make a cross on the earth and stick this nail in the middle of it. Then say, 'We pray for useful portents and divine instruction. We listen for your will.' Then say, 'Our Father who is in heaven, it was decreed in your name. May your authority come to pass. May your will be done.' Do not move away and give a blow on the nail. Then say another Pater Noster and say at the end, 'As it is in heaven.' Then give another blow and say another Pater Noster and say at the end, 'And on earth.' Give 3 blows on the nail and drive it in completely with the last blow and at once the horse will go as if it had never had any lameness and you will be very pleased as you go on your way.

Another for the above problem with shoeing. First remove the nail that causes the lameness and with the same nail mark around the foot putting it on the ground. Then lift the foot and make a cross in the middle of the mark and put the nail in the middle and give it three blows. With the first blow say, 'Gentle wood,' at the second, 'Gentle limp,' and at the third blow say, 'Gentle weight.' Make the sign of the cross and mount the horse and it will go as if it had no illness. Then you can also say these 3 words with a sign of the cross and the horse will walk. These are, ' Anter panter, panter anter .' Say a Pater Noster and you will go on your way. This has been tested many times. Do it 3 times in a row and you will have your wish.

Another. The balky horse that does not want to enter the boat. Approach the horse gently and take the right ear and make the sign of the cross and say these words, 'Remember the Lord will provide and all gentleness is from him. Abraham holds you, + Isaac leads you, + Jacob guides you. + Move in the name of God and the Virgin Mary, my beast.' At once it will go forward. Do this test when you pass through any door and you will see the wonderful result, because this has been proved.

