Another for the horse that has lost a shoe through travel. Dismount and move aside and say 3 Pater Noster with 3 Ave Maria for the soul of someone whom you have known who has been executed or died a bad death. In your mind say, 'O , take my horse that has lost a shoe into your care until I may go to a place where he can be shod.' Mount the horse and go your way safely until you find a ferrier. Then have the horse shod and he will have no problem. Then say 3 more Pater Noster for the soul of the person and recommend him to God. If you let your horse go out at night, commend him to this friend and the horse will carry nothing without your knowledge. This has been proved.

To put some green spots on a white horse.

Take 4 to 6 lb. of green capers and dry them in the shade and powder them. Then distill the powder in a glass still on the bain marie and redistill the water 2 times. Then with this water bathe the spot repeatedly that you want to make green and the hair will take on the green color. It will last for a while and it will be beautiful to see.

Also take 2 or 3 lb. of verdigris and calcine it. Then wash it once in a pot and the second time distill it and use this to rub on the white hair. It will make the hair become a different green color. You can tint horses, dogs, cats and other animals and for a time it will make them beautiful to see. This is a good secret.

Another, a similar secret to make a star on the forehead of a horse. Take a root of cyclamen and make an opening in the middle and put therein ordinary oil and put it in the hot ashes around a grill and let it cook thoroughly. Then shave where you want to make the star and with the very warm oil rub the shaved spot twice a day. If you touch the place with a little dark soap it will become white. So it has been said.

Another to make a horse become lame in a quarter of an hour for a joke and make him recover quickly without any impediment. Take 2 or 3 horsehairs from the tail of the horse and bind one front leg above the knee as tightly as you can and let it stay. In a quarter of an hour the horse will go lame so that it appears that it is very sick. When you want to cure it, remove the horsehairs or cut them and give 2 rubs to the leg and it will soon be cured without impediment and it will go where you wish.

Another joke similar to this, but I do not believe it unless I test it first. It is said that if one takes the leg of the black beetle that stays under stones and smells bad and binds it in a little piece of linen and puts under the middle of an exit as the horse passes over it, they say that at once the horse is lamed from that piece of linen and will be lame as long as the thing stays there. As soon as you remove it, the horse will be cured and free without injury.

*For a stab wound of a horse as well as a man. Say, 'In the name of God and the Holy Trinity and the Virgin Mary. As Jesus Christ was wounded and the wound was washed and rubbed with ointment and it was cured by that washing and by that ointment, so may this cure this man or this horse of this wound.' + + + .

Water to cure wounds, fistulas, ulcers, tumors and old sores, provided that the hurt place is open.

First take clean water in a jar or other vessel and bless it in the way written below. Such water is powerful to treat fistulas, ulcers, tumors and all old wounds and cuts such as wounds, as long as the sore place is open. Wet some threads and some cloths and put these on the sores. This can be done regardless of time or hour if any offence is pardoned with a good heart and every man is good to bless the water. First say the Pater Noster, the Ave Maria and the confiteor to God the Father and continue as it is written and you will have a cure that does not come from earth. Viz.

1. 'Water, I exorcise you and order it in the name of the most Holy Trinity, Father, + Son + and Holy Spirit, Amen, that this wound may be healed properly through you and closed just as you obeyed the command of God in the beginning of the world when he put you in your place. Amen.' Say a Pater Noster with each prayer, viz. the Pater Noster is repeated.

2. 'Water, I exorcise you and order you, in the name of the most Holy Trinity, Father, + Son + and Holy Spirit, + Amen, that just as you supported the Ark with all its human nature that you preserved safe and sound, that the wound may be properly healed and well-closed by you. Amen.' Pater Noster with Ave Maria.

3. 'Water, I exorcise you and order you, in the name of the most Holy Trinity, Father, + Son + and Holy Spirit, + Amen, by the most holy and secret knowledge of the River Jordan that was placed in the hands of the glorious holy saint, John the Baptist, that you may heal and consolidate this wound.' Pater Noster and Ave Maria.

4. 'Water, I exorcise you and order you, in the name of the most Holy Trinity, Father, + Son + and Holy Spirit, Amen, and by the mystery of the most holy banquet when you were converted into wine and just as the water of Jordan by the command of Elisha cleansed and healed Naaman the Syrian from his leprosy, to heal this wound and restore the flesh to a healthy state and that you heal this wound properly and well. Amen.' Pater Noster and Ave Maria.

5. 'Water, I exorcise you and order you, in the name of the most Holy Trinity, Father, + Son + and Holy Spirit, Amen, just as blood and water came from the side of our Lord, Jesus Christ, and by the font that healed all infirmities, to heal this wound properly and well and close it. Amen.' Pater Noster and Ave Maria.

6. 'Blessing + to you through Jesus Christ, son of God, our Lord who in Cana of Galilee, as a sign of his miraculous power, converted you to wine, who with his feet walked over you and, through Saint John the Baptist, was baptized in you in the Jordan, and you were one with the blood produced from his side and he said to his disciples that you cured all wounds. In the name of the Father, + Son + and Holy Spirit, Amen.' Pater Noster and Ave Maria.

