7. 'In the name of the most Holy Trinity, Father, + Son + and Holy Spirit. Amen, and all holy and all virtue of heaven and in the name of the most holy night in which the most holy Virgin delivered and Christ was born and then died and just as Christ was resurrected and the Blessed Virgin commands that these wounds should be strong and well-healed, without infection, without cold, without fever, without bleeding, without pain and without any sickness. Christ and the Blessed Virgin + ordered it so. Just as Longinus, the Hebrew, pierced the side of our Lord, Jesus Christ, with a lance and just as the Lord healed that wound and it did not lead to putrefaction, so may this wound not develop bloody matter and putrefaction, but may heal and grow flesh in it, in honor of the most sacred passion of our Lord, Jesus Christ and by the seven words that he said on the cross to God, the Father: First, Father forgive them for they do not know what they do. 2. Amen. I say to you today you will be with me in paradise. 3. Woman, behold your Son. Disciples, behold your Mother. 4. I thirst. 5. It is finished. 6. Hely, hely, lama zabatani. 7. Father, my soul is commended into your hands.'

We pray. 'To you, my Lord, Jesus Christ, I ask through those and these most holy words which you spoke, hanging on the Cross, so you may consider it worthy of your power to cause this little cloth in this water to heal this wound, in the name of the Father, + Son + and Holy Spirit. Amen. He is merciful in all your iniquities and heals all your infirmities. Amen.' When you bless the water, have the cloth present and say all the above prayers to bless the water and the cloth and it will be blessed without fail. Do not alter these.

To remove a birthmark or a blood spot that is on the face or the body.

Take an amount that you wish of mucilage from quinces, saffron and squash seeds and make them into fine powder and form it with a decoction of fenugreek and with this rub the place where the birthmark or blood spot is. In a few days it will be gone.

Again, you can use this other method to remove the blemish of a blood spot. Take 2 ounces each of mud from a river with running water and some white soap cut finely. Dissolve the soap in a little cold water. Then add the mud and incorporate it well. In the evening, put this on the spot and in the morning wash it well. Do this several times and the spot will diminish.

Another to remove a blood spot or any blemishes. Take the juice of celery and finest wheat flour and make a plaster. In the evening put it on the blemish that you wish to remove and in the morning wash it. In a few days you will see the good result that the place where the mark was will hardly be seen.

Another to remove the birthmark or blood spot. This has been tested. If it is a woman who has such a red mark or birthmark or other mark on her body, kill a female pig and if it is a man who has such a mark, kill a male pig. Take some of the fat from the chest or the back or the kidneys or whatever you get easily. With this warm make 3 little balls the size of an egg, more or less, this is not important. Also sing or say over these 3 masses of the day of Christ's birth, as they stand covered on the cloth. When this is done take one of these 3 balls and make 3 little ones and do so with the others, so in all there are then 9 little balls. Then take one of these balls in the evening when you go to sleep and rub it well on the birthmark or blood spot and do not do anything else. The little bit of fat or whatever else remains in your hand, preserve it carefully. Save all these that you get and at the end put them all together and make a ball of them, little or large does not matter, and keep it with you and when there is a burial of a man or a woman, put this pellet that you have made into the hand of the dead person and with this it should go to burial. When that ball is destroyed or consumed, then your birthmark or blemish will go away and not before. Otherwise, you can throw this ball in a river of running water where there are fish and when this is broken up, destroyed and consumed, you will be cured and healthy at once and will remain without blemishes and marks and your flesh will be smooth and clean without any spots. This remedy has been made and tested by me.

Very perfect celestial water or elixir of life. Viz.

