Take 1 dram each of cloves, nutmeg, ginger, zedoary and long and round peppers, 1 dram each of juniper berries and laurel berries, orange peel, flowers of sage, basil, rosemary, marjoram, sweet flag, French lavender, germander, round mint, pennyroyal, gentian, mountain mint and flowers of elder, 1 ounce each of seeds of dill and feverfew, good dry figs, dried sea grapes and date pulp and 6 ounces each of sweet almonds, pine nuts and clean white honey. Then take in weight as much fine sugar as is in this composition above, that is 30 ounces of fine sugar. Grind it and incorporate everything well together. Put in the same amount by weight of the best brandy that you can find and it should be distilled at least five times so that it will not have body but contains only the good. Incorporate everything and put it in a well-sealed flask for 2 whole days. Then put the distilling cap on the flask and distill this composition with its recipient flask in place....

and above all keep the fire very low and a most clear and precious water will come forth. Continue with the fire very low until you see the water change color, that is it becomes whitish. Then quickly change to another receptacle and make the collection with all the joints closed up again so that the gases do not escape from any side. I tell you this not just for the second water but for the first and the third, because this matters. This second water has enough turbidity so that it is not good except it makes the face beautiful and all the rest of the body and removes every freckle and other spot and leaves the flesh very white. It does this by the end of 15 days. This water is said to be the whitening for great ladies and princesses with the property of whitening the face and cleansing it of every spot. It is very fragrant with a pleasant odor.

Note that you should take the first clear and lustrous water and blend this by weight with an equal amount of brandy that has been distilled with the coil at least 4 or 5 times so that it is all spirit and does not have any body in it. This first water, well-incorporated with the brandy, is called 'Honey Balsam.' Put this water in a large flask for 2 whole days, well-closed so that no gases can escape. Then fit on its distilling cap and under that the receptacle with the joint well-sealed, as you know, with cloth and dough. Fit the flask first in the bain marie so that it cannot move and is firm and solid and distill it with a very little fire. I say little, so the water is barely maintained warm. You will see a very clear water distill, very odorous and marvelous and keep it by itself.

When you see that the still changes color, that is the distillate becomes like rainwater, then at once and dextrously put on another receptacle and be quick to close the joints. Let this second water come until you see it change color, that is the third type and of red color. Again change to the third receptacle, as above, and keep all these 3 kinds of water by themselves. Keep them well-sealed with cork and wax. Save them as dearly as precious gems because in these waters is contained the greatest power that is on earth, as you will in part understand from their virtues written below. Viz.

These are the virtues of this celestial water or elixir of life which have been tested. Viz. The first virtue is this: if you put a little on a fresh wound, know that it needs no other medication as long as it is not a mortal wound. This will heal it in 24 hours. It has been proved.

Another for one who has an old wound, ulcer, fistula, lupus or plague. Wash the sore place with this water and in 15 to 20 days or more he will be freed and cured.

Another. If you put a drop on a carbuncle, I say that it kills it in the space of 4 or 5 hours.

