Another. If one has a problem with hemorrhoids, bathe where they are and they will be cured.

Another. If a woman has sickness of the womb, she should drink one dinarius in weight of this water with as much good warm broth and soon she will be freed.

Another. If there is a pannicle or fleshy growth or other impediment causing tearing from the eyes, provided that the eye is not damaged, put a drop of this water in the eye for three days and in 4 or 5 days it will be better and soon will be cured.

Another. If you have a pain or bruise from falling, rub where it pains you and in 3 days it will be cured so there will be no more pain.

Another. If you have a limb that is contracted or hardened, bathe it for 3 days and it will soon be cured.

In conclusion, this water has a good effect in all the infirmities that can come to the human body. You should know that the third water that you have extracted with the increased fire is very precious and of such virtue that if a person uses only half a spoonful at a time for 15 days it will quickly remove any lepra, constipation, dropsy, asthma, tuberculosis or paralysis and other infirmities. At the end of 2 months he will be healed.

Another. This precious water has so many virtues useful for human nature that if a man uses as much as equals 2 grains of wheat and continues to drink it with water of borage flowers distilled in a glass still, for the space of one year, he will restore blood, flesh and skin and he will be more lively than he was 10 years before.

Also, if a child has been given up by the doctors, put one or more drops in the mouth and in the space of 2 or 3 hours there will be some improvement and you may be able to heal, depending on the child's nature and the illness. This is enough of its virtues.

Soporific of several kinds suited to the person and, for the most part, tested.

Take 3 drams each of lilies, lettuce seeds, bishop's weed, henbane and black poppy and 2 drams each of opium and poison hemlock. Everything should be cut coarsely and put all these into two lb. of Greek wine or the best malvasia and let it infuse for 24 hours. Then distill it in the glass still with a slow fire and save the water which will be perfect to make one sleep. In the evening when one goes to sleep, give 3 drams to drink and soon the person will be sleeping and will sleep all night, longer or less according to the amount that you give to drink. When you want him to awaken, bathe the wrists and the nostrils of the nose with strong vinegar and he will wake up at once without surprise and not at all ill. This has been tested. Take what you want from the following.

Another sedative, a little more active. Take 2 ounces each of thorn apple, Theban opium and henbane, 1 dram each of orpine and black and white poppies, 3 ounces each of lettuce seeds and purslane seeds and water made of dodder, from those bad seeds that grow in the grain when it begins to mature and then a water is made from them in the still. All the above things should be softened or break them coarsely. Then distill everything in the glass still on a slow fire. Save the distillation as a thing very dear, especially to cause sleep. Give 2 drams to drink in the evening in half a glass of wine when one goes to sleep and he will sleep 6 or even 8 hours without awakening. Then wash the wrists with strong vinegar and at once he will awaken.

If you do not want it as a water, make it as a powder and it will have the same effect. That is, you can make this composition as above and when you have put in the water, let it stay until it dries in an airy place, not in the sun. When it is dry, make very fine powder and save it in a little sack of leather and keep it in a dry place. When you want to use this powder, give 2 drams and not more, mixed with other spices. You can give it on foods as you wish and it will not be bad if it is made with other spices. Very soon sleep will come and one will not sleep less than 6 hours. Also one may be awakened by bathing the wrists and the nose with vinegar so that the stupor will pass away quickly and he will be as before and will not think about being sleepy. This is used for one who cannot sleep. This is a good, tested secret.

If you want to use a shorter method, take this composition in whatever amount you wish and bind it in a fine linen cloth. Allow it to boil a while, putting it in soup or broth or put it in wine or water and let it stay for a piece. Then extract it and press it well over the liquid. When you want to cause sleep, use it and it will act the same as above.

Another sedative. Take 9 ounces of good, odoriferous wine and put it in a bottle. Then take 2 drams each of lilies, henbane, black poppy, opium, ordinary salt, sedge, aloe wood, nutmeg and bedstraw and 4 drams each of lettuce seed and white poppy, all finely ground. Put them in the bottle in the wine and stopper it well and put it to extract in a bath for 9 days. Then remove the wine carefully so that the sediment is not disturbed and leave it to clarify and save it in the bottle. When you want to use it, put 3 drops in wine or in some other material and it will cause sleep. Note that when you want to awaken someone from sleep, it is necessary to wash the nostrils with vinegar and put some in the mouth.

Another, a good soporific to make everyone in the house sleep. First write these words on unused parchment and put them over the door. These are the words, viz. ' Somnifer, somita, sandior, lapus, qui placidus est, somnolentus est.' 

Tested sedatives.

Take some grains of dodder that grows among the corn, seeds of black poppy and seeds of henbane, each in the weight of 6 dinarii , and 1 ½ dinarii each of henbane and Arabian opium and pulverize these things. Then take ½ lb. of water and put in this powder and put it in a glass still. Keep it on a slow fire that barely maintains it warm and let it stay that way for 24 hours. Then increase the fire and make it distill and save this. If you give this water in the amount of a hazel nut shell in wine or water, it will make one sleep six hours. Bathe the wrists and the nose with vinegar and one will awaken quickly, not realizing that he slept.

Another sedative, a little more effective, from which one is not awakened except with strong vinegar. Take the gall bladder of a rabbit and dry it in smoke or in the oven and make very fine powder. If you want a person to sleep 6 hours, give him half a dram to eat or drink and if you want him to sleep 12 hours give him one dram and if you want him to awaken before that time, bathe the wrists and the nostrils with very strong vinegar and he will awaken quickly.

Another sedative. Write these words on a knife that has a white handle, beginning to write at the tip. Then put it under the head of one whom you want to make sleep. He will sleep until you remove the knife from under his head. These are the words, ' + Ras + Risaos + + +.'

Another sedative. Take 1 ounce of cloves, 3 drams of black and white poppies and 1 dram of Theban opium. Pulverize everything and incorporate them and give this to eat in a bowl or in a savory. Do not boil it or it will lose its power and may not do anything. Give 2 or 3 drams of this powder and soon he will be asleep. Then awaken him with very strong vinegar.

Another sedative. Take yellow lilies, those growing in swamps or in water, and make fine powder of it and give it to drink to whomever you wish and soon he will sleep.

Another. Take the tongue of the hoopoe and a tooth of a dead man and put it under the head of him whom you want to sleep and he will sleep as long as it stays under his head. When you do not want him to sleep more, remove it.

Another fine and good sedative. Take equal amounts of white henbane and Theban opium and pulverize them finely and incorporate them well and give 1 dram of this to the person you want to sleep and soon he will be sleeping. If you want him to sleep less, give him less, because every 2 grains causes one hour of sleep. This is a very easy secret and it has been tested.

Another sedative to make those who are dining at the table fall asleep. Take a needle that has sewed the clothes on the back of a dead man and stick this needle under the table. As long as it stays there, they will stay asleep.

Another sedative. Take seeds of purslane, of white poppy, of lettuce, of stonecrop and of wild squash, each the same amount, and boil them in wine. Give this to drink in any way and soon one will go to sleep and sleep for 24 hours. Also, take the root of stonecrop and make very fine powder and give it to drink with good, warm wine and soon one will sleep. This is a useful secret.

An odorous, soporific apple that causes sleep after it is eaten.

Take 1 ounce of seeds of henbane, ½ ounce of mandrake rind, 2 ounces each of Theban opium, poison hemlock seeds, juice of house leek, fumitory and juice of lais and 1 thorn apple, everything well-ground, and 2 drams of poppy with tragacanth gum. They should be softened in these juices with bile from a rabbit and oil of mandrake. Then make a dough and make a ball or apple of it. Eating the herbs repeatedly will have a good effect in the healthy and also in the sick. Each time it will cause sleep close to 15 hours. It you would like it dark in color, put in parched peach stones and it will be finished.

Another, very perfect soporific. Write this little note and put it secretly under the pillow so that the person does not know. Viz. '+ On Mount Celion rest 7 sleepers, + Malchus, + Martinianus, + Maximianus, + Dionysius, + Constantius, + Johannes, + and Serapion +. Just as they sleep in the divine countenance of the omnipotent God, so may this servant of God (name) enjoy the same pleasant sleep with the aid of the Father and Holy Spirit. + + +.'

Another weak sedative. Put a head of a bat under the head of one who does not know it or give it to him to drink and he will sleep very soundly.

Another sedative for the sick. Take equal amounts of mandrake, henbane and white poppy and grind everything finely and incorporate with tepid water. Put this mixture on a linen cloth across the forehead so it reaches the temples. When you wish one to awaken, wet a piece of wool in strong vinegar and bathe the nose and he will wake up at once.

An exceptional sedative. Take the gall bladder of a wolf and a rabbit and rub the nostrils of the nose back and forth and soon the person will be asleep. You can arouse him with vinegar. This is a true remedy.

Another, an approved soporific. Take black and white poppies when they are in bloom and stick a needle in the stems, leaving the plants in the earth. From each puncture a tear will come out. When it is almost dry in the form of a gum, gather it in a grape leaf and save it in a glass bottle. When you want to use it, put about the amount of a grain of wheat or more in broth or in wine. When it is dissolved, give it to drink or eat and it will make a person sleep comfortably and without any problem. This works very well.

