Another sedative for the sick and the healthy. Take 3 drams of the best opium, 1 ½ drams of henbane seeds, 1/8 ounce of root of winter cherry, 1 dram of crocus, and 2 grains of oriental musk. Make a very fine powder and mix it with water of lettuce and make pills. Dry them in the sun and pulverize them and give 1 ½ drams as needed.

For the same. Take a leaf of sage and write these 4 words on it, viz. 'God put Adam to sleep.' Put it on a person's back or under him and he will soon fall asleep. This has been tested. Use strong rose vinegar for all sleeping persons. Do not doubt that your work will bring you honor and will work in the time that you wish because these have been tested.

The way to help someone who cannot sleep. Take the herb burdock or coltsfoot and put it under the head of the person when he sleeps so he does not know it. He will not awaken spontaneously but when you wish, with vinegar as described above. This is very good.

Water of tamarind flowers has many excellent virtues.

Take 2 handfuls each of leaves and flowers of tamarind, half a handful each of mint, lavender, pennyroyal, oregano and mountain mint. All of the above should be cut finely and put to infuse for 4 or 5 days in brandy from the third distillation, well-covered and in a warm place. Then distill it in a glass still and keep that which comes out in glass, well closed with wax. Keep it as something dear because by itself the water has wonderful effects. Experienced doctors say that no other medicine has been found which has greater warmth and strength and natural support than this water. Those who use it as described will never have serious illness.

Electuary of flowers of tamarind. Take 3 ounces of flowers of tamarind that are free of any blemish. Cut them finely. For every ounce of flowers, take one pound of good honey and put in the well-ground flowers. Cover it and let it stay to infuse for 3 whole days in a warm place or rewarm it every day. Then cook it in the honey. Remove it from the fire and put therein ½ ounce of dark spices per pound of conserve, such as equal amounts of ginger, pepper, cinnamon and cloves. The pepper should be less in amount. This is the mixture to make: 2 generous drams of ginger, 1 dram of cinnamon and 1 dinar by weight of cloves. It will be a good and perfect electuary.

