Some of the virtues of this water from flowers of tamarind that does wonderful miracles. If you drink 2 ounces of this water once a week or use it in sauce and every day wash your face, hands and chest or wherever else you want, your skin will be renewed as if of a young person. It will restore your strength and your bone marrow will be reinforced. It will make your mind good and all the arteries will be opened up and the natural spirits raised and your life improved and lost sight returned and kept permanently. This is a difficult thing to believe if you do not test it first. They say that Queen Isabella at 70 years was decrepit and with gouty paralysis, so in her all hope was dead, and with this herb and brandy she was made completely healthy and youthful so that she wanted to marry a young man of 40 years.

Another. If this herb is mixed with wine it has wonderful actions and powers and this is used in all chills. It improves and purges the blood. When you wash the mouth with this, you keep your teeth from any decay.

Another. Dry the tamarind with its flowers in the oven when the bread is removed, or it is better when the bread is put in, and make fine powder of it. First wash a sore with warm wine and then put on this powder and it will heal the sore rapidly.

Another. Boil its flowers, bound in a little piece of linen, until the liquid is reduced in half. Taken by mouth this is powerful in every infirmity within the body.

Another. Make charcoal of its wood and bind it in linen cloth. Then rub the teeth with this and if there are any worms in the teeth, they die. Added to white wine, it prevents any toothache.

Another. Make the bark smoke on the coals of the grill and take this smoke through your nose. If you are hoarse or have a cold, you will soon be cured.

Another. Boil its roots with vinegar and with that wash the feet and it will make your feet firm and strong and you will feel neither cold nor heat.

Another. If you repeatedly use stew made of this it will preserve your youth. If you eat its foliage on an empty stomach with honey and bread, have no fear that you will develop an abcess or ulcer.

