Take 1 ounce of native sulfur, 1 dram each of white incense and myrrh and ½ ounce of camphor. Powder everything very finely and mix it with ½ lb. of rose water and distill it in a little glass still. Preserve this water well-closed and bathe the face in the evening and morning with a sponge, rubbing well. Soon the redness of the face will disappear. This has been tested by many persons.

Another to remove redness from the face quickly. Viz. Take equal amounts of rose oil, violet oil, white lead, vinegar and rose water and incorporate them together. Rub the face with this in the evening when you go to sleep and also in the morning and stay in the house. It will reduce the great redness for you until it will not be seen.

If you wish to remove any kind of pimple on the face or on the body, take equal amounts of sulfur, rose oil and rose water and put everything together with a pinch of salt and the white of an egg. Incorporate everything well and in the evening rub the face where the pimples are and they will soon go away. This has been tested.

For facial lepra.

Take ½ dram each of starch, sarcocol gum, candied tragacanth gum, white lead, litharge and mastic, one fourth ounce each of white and yellow unguents, 1 ounce of dark unguent and sufficient rose water to incorporate everything in the form of an unguent. Pulverize those that can be pulverized. Rub the face in the evening and wash it in the morning with a decoction of coltsfoot.

For the same. Take some quicklime and wash it four times in water and save the fourth water. Mix this with 2 parts of goat's milk and mix in the white of an egg. Make a smooth liniment and wash the face with this.

For pimples and redness on the face. Take 1 dram of camphor, 2 drams of borax and 4 ounces of flour of red chick peas, well-ground, and confect them with juice of round onions and cleaned honey. In the evening anoint the face with this. In the morning wash with plain warm water and wipe the face clean. Do this for ten days.

