Another. This heals every kind of old skin eruption on the back, legs, neck and arms of all persons with this kind of irritation. Also if the eruption is on the feet so that it interferes too much with walking, it removes and cures and has the same effect as when calcined tartar is sprinkled on.

*Miraculous oil for wounds, tested by several persons.

Take one handful each of salvia, rue and southern wood, ½ handful of tamarind, 4 ounces of hepatic aloe and 20 ounces of ordinary oil and mix them together. Boil this on a low fire for an hour. Then force it through the press and put it in a glass bottle and cover it and it will be made. You have the remedy to make a plaster for wounds and heal them at once by boiling the extract with a glass of good wine.

To kill lice, crab lice, fleas and nits and it is also effective against mites.

Take 6 ounces of brown soap, 1 ounce of powdered hepatic aloe, 1/2 ounce of ground yellow sulfur and 3 drams of stavesacre and incorporate everything well. Then rub the places where the lice or nits are and they will all die rapidly. This is also powerful against mites.

Another to kill crab lice. Take 1 ounce of brown soap, ½ ounce of powdered yellow sulfur and 2 drams of quicksilver inactivated with saliva and incorporate everything together. Then rub where the crab lice are and they will die rapidly and you will not feel them any more.

Another to kill the fleas that ruin the hair and beard. Viz. Take a bowl of lupins and soak them in water. Then boil them and put in a half ounce of ground yellow sulfur, bound as a little button in a little cloth, and boil until it is reduced in half. Make lye in the usual way and wash the head with this and you will have lustrous hair, long and beautiful and the fleas will not ruin it anymore. This has been tested.

Another to get rid of lice and nits, viz. Take shavings of the horn of a stag, grind them very finely and dissolve them in strong vinegar. Drink this on an empty stomach. This beverage does not allow lice and nits to become established and stay in the human body. It will help you much more if you rub your body with this and they will die. Also if you take some sage and cut it finely and incorporate it with ordinary oil and strong vinegar and rub the head, all the nits will die.

Another to gather all the lice from the back around to the belt and all in one place. Viz. Take mercury and inactivate it with fasting sputum and with the juice of purslane. Rub your belt and waist on the bare flesh with this and all the lice will run into the belt and you will have peace.

Another against lice in the head and mites. Viz. Take ashes of French lavender and make lye and with this wash the head several times and you will not have lice on the head. If you wash your hands with this lye you will never have mites. Again, take powder of stavesacre and incorporate it with oil and vinegar in the form of an unguent. Rub where the lice are and they will all die. The same unguent is good to make nails grow. Again, every morning eat some bread soaked in this oil and lice will never be powerful against you. It is tested.

Take 2 fingers of this water every morning mixed with a little white wine and as much powder of tartar as stands on a dinar and drink this warm. It cures every dropsy when it is continued for a month if the dropsy is old and serious. In the more recent and lesser dropsy, it restores health in 10 to 15 days. It is even good to take when you go to sleep.

Another. If a little bit of this water is taken without tartar but with a little white wine, every morning as described, it cures epilepsy, migraine, dizziness, watery eyes, restores milk in lactating women and increases semen in the man and makes him able to be fertile.

Another. Wash the head with this water, that is bathe with it. Then wait a little bit and wash with lye. Then rewash again with this water. Wrap the hair with a towel and let the hair dry with this on it and it makes the hair healthy against any kind of ringworm.

Another. Washing sores with this cures any abcess marvelously. Drinking a little bit every morning with a little white wine prevents any kind of bad humor or incurable illness from developing in the body.

Another. Put a little in the mouth in the morning and evening and wash swollen gums and teeth and soon they will be healthy.

Another. If anyone feels touched by plague or if one suspects he may have it but is not certain, at once drink a half glass and refrain from eating for 2 or 3 hours. Then drink again as much and then eat as you please. Do not doubt that with the aid of God you will be healthy. Take care of yourself and you will be cured.

Electuary of rosemary.

Take 6 ounces of finely-ground rosemary and 6 lb. of cleaned honey and when it has boiled a little, put in the powders written below, viz. 2 ounces of good ginger, 1 dram each of cinnamon, cloves, nutmeg, pepper and starch. Compound the powders well with the honey. Add a little saffron and let it boil very slowly until it is cooked in the form of an electuary and it will be made. Save it in a clean vitreous vessel. Take 1 ounce in the morning on an empty stomach and ½ ounce in the evening when you go to sleep. It will preserve the stomach, aid any diminished senses, help the strength of the body, purify the blood and open any obstructed veins.

Another. It is powerful also in pain in the sides, in the malady of gravel and in the pain of pregnancy and parturition and it causes urination.

Another. It is powerful against phthisis, aids a weak memory, poor vision, movement of blood, coldness of the limbs and in pain of any part, strengthens the womb and the kidneys, aids in umbilical hernia and in the sickness of plague.

This electuary can make you more or less full of spirit, according to whether your constitution is warm or cold.

Unguent made of rosemary.

Take stems, leaves and flowers of rosemary all together and dry them and make very fine powder. Incorporate them with 2 ounces each of old ordinary oil, laurel oil, oil of mastic and of camomile, 1 ½ ounces each of mutton fat and chicken fat, 1 ounce of fresh butter, ½ ounce of cumin and 1 ounce of clean wax. Boil everything together on a slow fire, incorporating them well together in the usual way. This unguent is useful for every pain from cold. It is most perfect in retracted nerves and in chills.

